##Politics this week
The hard Brexiteers in Britain’s Conservative Party opposed to Theresa May’s Brexit deal with the EU struggled to get enough support to depose her. The deal will have a rough ride in Parliament. In a warning shot, Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party, which Mrs May relies upon for a governing majority, voted against her government on budget measures, claiming she had broken promises about the treatment of the province under the deal. The focus switched to Brussels, where Mrs May engaged in some shuttle diplomacy to iron out the details of her agreement ahead of an eu summit.
1.depose:to remove a leader or ruler from a position of power
2.a warning shot:something you say or do to warn someone that you oppose what they are doing and will try to make them stop it – used especially in news reports
3.iron out the details:敲定细节

Russia tried to get its nominee chosen as the new head of Interpol, the international policing organisation. After last-minute opposition by many countries, a South Korean was elected instead. The main objection to having Vladimir Putin’s man in the job was that Russia often tries to use Interpol to arrest blameless critics abroad.
1.nominee:someone who has been officially suggested for an important position, duty, or prize

The European Commission ruled that Italy’s budget for next year violates its fiscal rules, and proposed a process that could lead to sanctions under its excessive-deficits procedure. Europe’s leaders must approve the move before it goes any further, possibly at a summit in December.

Restraining order
A judge in America temporarily blocked an order by Donald Trump that would deny migrants who enter the country illegally the opportunity to claim asylum. The judge said Mr Trump had tried to “rewrite the immigration laws”. Mr Trump criticised the ruling, which he said had been made by an “Obama judge”. That earned a rare public rebuke from John Roberts, the chief justice of the Supreme Court, who said “we do not have Obama judges or Trump judges” but “dedicated judges”.
1.asylum:庇护

A private American firm, Ocean Infinity, found the wreck of an Argentine submarine, the San Juan, that disappeared in November 2017 with 44 crew members on board. Argentina’s defence minister said the government did not have the equipment to raise the submarine from its resting place, some 900 metres below the surface of the Atlantic Ocean.

Alan García, a former president of Peru, sought asylum in Uruguay’s embassy in Lima. A judge barred Mr García from leaving the country while prosecutors investigate allegations that he took bribes. Mr García says he is a victim of political persecution.
1.persecution:迫害，烦扰

Undermining his intelligence
“Maybe he did and maybe he didn’t!” said Donald Trump, dodging the question of whether Muhammad bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, ordered the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, a dissident Saudi journalist. The cia reportedly concluded that Prince Muhammad is responsible for Khashoggi’s death. Ignoring his own intelligence agency, Mr Trump said America would remain a “steadfast partner” of the kingdom.
1.dodge:to deliberately avoid discussing something or doing something
Senator O’Brian skilfully dodged the crucial question. 
奥布赖恩参议员巧妙地回避了这一关键问题。
2.dissident:someone who publicly criticizes the government in a country where this is punished
Sun Yat-sen was a prominent dissident who had been exiled from China.
孙文是从中国流亡的一位著名不同政见者。

A British phd student was found guilty of spying and sentenced to life in prison in the United Arab Emirates. Matthew Hedges denies the charge; his family says he was made to sign a confession he could not read. 

Gunmen shot and wounded several children and kidnapped an Italian woman who was doing voluntary work with a charity in Kenya. It was the first abduction of foreigners in six years. The incident occurred on the southern coast, raising concerns that a jihadist insurgency may be reigniting after several years of quiet.
1.reignite:再次点燃

America killed 44 fighters from al-Shabab, a jihadist group in Somalia, in several air strikes. African Union forces backed by American jets have been battling al-Shabab for more than a decade. The insurgents still control much of the country.

Eight un peacekeepers were killed fighting rebels in the Democratic Republic of Congo in a part of the country affected by an outbreak of Ebola. Fighting has made it difficult for health workers to contain the spread of the virus.

APEC headache
The annual Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation summit was marred by tensions between America and China. Mike Pence, America’s vice-president, represented the United States at the gathering in Papua New Guinea. The rivalry between the two powers was evident in the decision by America to help Australia build a naval base in Papua, a move intended to curb China’s growing influence in the region.
1.mar:to make something less attractive or enjoyable
A frown marred his handsome features. 
紧锁的眉头破坏了他俊美的面容。

At least 55 people were killed in Kabul when a suicide-bomber targeted a meeting of clerics who had gathered to honour the birth of the Prophet Muhammad.

The latest results
After a manual recount, Rick Scott, a Republican, won Florida’s Senate race, snatching the seat from a Democratic incumbent of 18 years. Ron DeSantis, another Republican, won the governor’s race. In Georgia Stacey Abrams acknowledged that her Republican opponent, Brian Kemp, had won the governorship, but claimed that the election had been neither free nor fair.

Other final counts from the mid-term elections showed that Democrats had won every congressional district in California’s Orange County, until recently a Republican bastion.

The White House restored the accreditation of Jim Acosta, a journalist from CNN who annoyed President Trump. A judge had earlier temporarily overturned the decision to ban Mr Acosta from press conferences, citing press freedom.
1.accreditation:认证

Julian Assange, a prolific leaker of state secrets who has been holed up inside the Ecuadorean embassy in London for eight years, has been charged by America’s Justice Department. With what, is unclear.