##Wobble or wipeout?
Some 37% of the rise in the value of all firms in the S&P 500 since 2013 is explained by six of its members: Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix. About 28% of the rise in Chinese equities over the same period is owing to two firms: Alibaba and Tencent. But the value of those firms has recently plummeted. The drop mainly reflects three tech-specific worries: decelerating growth, falling profit forecasts and rising capital intensity.
1. wobble:to move unsteadily from side to side, or make something do this
The pile of bricks wobbled and fell. 
那堆砖摇摇晃晃地倒塌了。
Tom stopped, wobbling from the weight of his load. 
汤姆停下来，身上的东西压得他摇摇晃晃。
2. decelerate:to go slower, especially in a vehicle
3. plummet:to suddenly and quickly decrease in value or amount
House prices have plummeted down. 
房价已经暴跌。
Profits plummeted from £49 million to £11 million. 
利润从4,900万英镑下跌到1,100万英镑。

##Whitehall’s mover and shaker
Jeremy Heywood, who died yesterday, was the leading British civil servant of his generation, a consummate peacemaker, crisis manager, firefighter and problem solver. He worked closely with the most recent four prime ministers, and had a genius for making himself indispensable; one of his colleagues likened him to a drug that people get addicted to quickly. But he was also brilliant at getting things done and making the mighty Whitehall machine move.
1. consummate:showing a lot of skill
a great performance from a consummate actor
一名演技出色的演员的精彩表演
He won the race with consummate ease (= very easily ) . 
他很轻松地赢得了这场比赛。
De Gaulle conducted his strategy with consummate skill .
戴高乐以高明的手段实施他的策略。
The man’s a consummate liar.
这个人是说谎高手。
2. indispensable:so important or useful that it is impossible to manage without them
Mobile phones have become an indispensable part of our lives.
移动电话已经成为我们生活中的必需品。

##Power to the people: ballot initiatives
Americans will do more than pick officeholders today. They will also make policy themselves, voting on ballot initiatives in states and cities across the country. A big one is California’s rent-control proposition. *[1]Proponents point to huge numbers priced out of their homes, while economists say capping rents will exactly discourage the needed construction. (Polls show the initiative’s chances as less than even.)*  San Francisco will vote on taxing big companies headquartered there, with proceeds used to fight the city’s rampant homelessness. Loosening cannabis laws will be on the ballot in conservative places like North Dakota, Missouri and Oklahoma. And Idaho, Nebraska, Utah and Montana—also deeply red—will vote on expanding Medicaid, part of the Obamacare reform loathed in those very same states. The “Evergreen State”, Washington, will vote on a carbon tax, and Florida may restore voting rights to felons. In a diverse and divided country, states and cities remain vital laboratories of democracy.
1. proposition:a suggestion, or something that is suggested or considered as a possible thing to do
The offer of two tickets for the price of one makes it a very attractive proposition . 
门票买一送一的提议很诱人。
It doesn’t sound like a very viable proposition to me.
对我来说那提议听起来似乎不太可行。
2. [1]支持者指出，大量房屋因房价过高而无法入住，而经济学家表示，限制租金恰恰会阻碍必要的建设。(民意调查显示，该提案的成功几率很低。)
3. proceeds:the money that is obtained from doing something or selling something
We sold the business and bought a villa in Spain with the proceeds. 
我们卖了公司，用所得的钱在西班牙买了一幢别墅。
The proceeds of the concert will go to charity.
音乐会的收入将捐献给慈善机构。