##Business this week
Alibaba, a Chinese e-commerce titan, reported a record-breaking “Singles’ Day”, its annual online-shopping festival. The event racked up 30.8bn in sales (measured by gross merchandise volume), compared with 25.3bn in 2017. But sales rose at the slowest pace in ten years.
1.rack sth ←→ up:to get a number or amount of something, especially a number of points in a competition
He racked up 41 points. 他得了41分。

The oil price plunged on fears of slower global demand in 2019. The American oil price suffered its longest losing streak—12 straight days—since 1984. The price of the global benchmark, Brent crude, fell by 7% on November 13th to just below $65 a barrel. Prices stabilised the next day on reports that producers were planning to discuss cutting output. 

Emergency stop
Japan’s economy contracted in the third quarter, with gdp falling at an annualised rate of 1.2%. The contraction had been widely expected after severe flooding hit the west of the country in July and an earthquake affected the north in September.

German gdp also fell in the third quarter, its first contraction since 2015. That was partly driven by new emissions-testing regulations, which slammed the brakes on car production during the summer. Exports also took a tumble, thanks to a souring global trade environment.
1.slam on the brakes:to make a car stop very suddenly by pressing the brake s very hard
2.sour:if a relationship or someone’s attitude sours, or if something sours it, it becomes unfriendly or unfavourable
An unhappy childhood has soured her view of life. 
不幸的童年扭曲了她的人生观。

Apple’s share price sank on concerns that demand for its smartphones may have peaked. Four of its suppliers lowered their revenue expectations. The company’s share price has fallen by nearly 20% since early October. Led by falls in the technology and financial sectors, the s&p 500 slid for the fifth consecutive day on November 14th.
1.consecutive:consecutive numbers or periods of time follow one after the other without any interruptions
Can they win the title for the third consecutive season? 
他们能连续第三个赛季赢得冠军称号吗？

Cecilia Malmström, the European Union’s trade negotiator, met with Robert Lighthizer, America’s trade representative, in Washington, dc. The talks were meant to push forward negotiations on a trade deal, but the two sides disagreed over its scope. America wants to include agricultural products; the eu prefers a deal limited to industrial goods. 

Amos Genish became the third chief executive of tim, the firm previously called Telecom Italia, to be booted out in three years. The company has performed poorly, with its share price falling by almost 30% this year. Mr Genish’s departure may have been a result of a row between tim’s largest shareholders—Vivendi, a French media conglomerate, and Elliott, a hedge fund—over the direction of the company.
1.boot sb ←→ out:to force someone to leave a place, job, or organization, especially because they have done something wrong

Binny Bansal, the chief executive and co-founder of Flipkart, an Indian e-commerce firm, resigned after an investigation into alleged misconduct revealed “lapses of judgment”. Walmart, an American retail giant, bought a 77% stake in Flipkart in May.
1.lapse:a failure to do something you should do, especially to behave correctly

Multiple choice
Amazon plumped for two new second headquarters. The e-commerce behemoth settled on Long Island City in Queens, New York and Arlington, Virginia as the locations for its offices, which will each hold 25,000 people. Its search began in September 2017 and prompted cities across America to offer financial incentives in the hope of luring jobs and investment.
1.plump for sth/sb:to choose something or someone after thinking carefully about it
Finally we plumped for a bottle of champagne. 
最后我们选了一瓶香槟酒。
2.prompt:引起，促使

SoftBank, a Japanese telecoms firm, committed $3bn to WeWork. The latest round of funding values the office-sharing firm at around $45bn. SoftBank had already pumped $4.4bn into the startup through the Vision Fund, an investment fund led by the telecom firm’s chief executive, Masayoshi Son.

Tencent, a Chinese internet firm, reported an expectations-busting 30% increase in profits in the third quarter, compared with a year ago. Revenues rose by 24%, thanks to a jump in advertising earnings. Tencent’s video-game business, its biggest source of income, has been hit by regulatory hurdles in China. Revenues from smartphone games rose by 7% in the third quarter, but those from computer games fell by 15%.
1.expectations-busting:超出预期的

Putting out the fire
Juul, an e-cigarette maker, said it would suspend the sale of most of its flavoured e-cigarette pods in shops and delete its social-media accounts. The firm has a market share of over 70% in America. Its announcement followed demands from the Food and Drug Administration that companies address the rise in youth vaping. Scott Gottlieb, the regulator’s chief, hinted that he would soon unveil measures to curb e-cigarette use by teenagers. 
1.address:if you address a problem, you start trying to solve it
Our products address the needs of real users. 
我们的产品满足真正用户的需要。

Italy’s banks and some private investors agreed to underwrite up to €400m ($450m) of subordinated bonds issued by Banca Carige, a midsized Italian lender. The issuance will help the bank meet a deadline from the European Central Bank to boost its capital buffers by the end of the year. The bank, already limping because of shareholder infighting and an accounting scandal two years ago, had struggled to raise capital on the markets this year.
1.underwrite:to arrange to sell shares to investors, and to agree to buy any which are not bought by them 包销，承销〔未获认购的股份〕
They underwrite new offerings. That means they take the risk of buying the securities and reselling them to the public.
他们对其它新品种也提供保险，即他们冒险购买证券，并重新出售给民众。
2.limp:to walk slowly and with difficulty because one leg is hurt or injured