##Politics this week
After an “impassioned” five-hour meeting Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister, said her cabinet had approved a provisional withdrawal deal from the European Union. After the meeting Mrs May said she believed the draft deal was “the best that could be negotiated”. She now needs Parliament to back it, but may struggle to find enough votes to get it passed. Several of her ministers, including the Brexit secretary, resigned over the deal. Mrs May herself could yet be toppled. 
1.provisional:likely or able to be changed in the future
a provisional government 临时政府

Paradise lost
Wildfires continued to rage in California. At least 50 people are confirmed to have died in the blazes, many from the devastated town of Paradise in the north of the state. More than 100 people are still missing. Around 300,000 Californians are thought to have fled their homes. President Donald Trump blamed poor forest management for the fires. 

CNN, a broadcaster, sued to restore the White House accreditation of Jim Acosta, a reporter who tussles with Mr Trump at press conferences. Last week Mr Acosta asked too many follow-up questions for Mr Trump’s liking (the president called him a “terrible person”). Other networks, including the Republican-leaning Fox News, also rallied in cnn’s support.

Darkness visible
The trial of Joaquín Guzmán, the alleged head of Mexico’s Sinaloa drug gang, began in Brooklyn, New York. Mr Guzmán, also known as El Chapo, faces 17 charges related to drug trafficking, money laundering and violations of firearms laws. His lawyer contended that the real leader of the gang is Ismael Zambada, who remains free because he has bribed “the entire government of Mexico”. El Chapo “controlled nothing” that Mr Zambada did, the lawyer claimed.
1.contend:to argue or state that something is true
Some astronomers contend that the universe may be younger than previously thought. 
有些天文学家声称宇宙可能比原先认为的要年轻。

Macron Agonistes
Leaders from much of the world, including President Emmanuel Macron of France, America’s Mr Trump, Vladimir Putin of Russia and Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, met in Paris on November 11th to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the armistice that ended the first world war. Mr Macron spoke of a historic choice between peace and disorder. Mr Trump boycotted a meeting of the Paris Peace Forum after the ceremony. 
1.armistice:an agreement to stop fighting

Mrs Merkel followed Mr Macron in calling for the creation of a “real, true European army”. It is not clear what that would mean in practice.

A deadline set by the European Commission for Italy to revise its budget to deal with what are termed excessive deficits passed without Italy complying. A formal infringement procedure now looks likely. 

All hell broke loose
Avigdor Lieberman resigned as Israel’s defence minister and called for an election to be held as soon as possible. Mr Lieberman clashed with Binyamin Netanyahu, the prime minister, over the government’s pursuit of a truce with militants in Gaza. Violence erupted earlier, when a secret operation by Israeli special forces inside Gaza was exposed, leading to the death of seven Palestinian militants and an Israeli officer. Militants then fired more than 460 rockets at Israel, while Israeli aircraft hit 160 targets inside Gaza. 
1.special forces:特种部队

Local forces backed by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates pushed into Hodeida, Yemen’s main port city. More than 100 people died in the fighting. David Beasley, head of the World Food Programme, says the country is facing its “worst humanitarian disaster in 100 years”.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey shared an audio recording of the killing of a Saudi dissident, Jamal Khashoggi, with five countries. Mr Khashoggi was killed in the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul last month. Saudi Arabia is seeking the death penalty for five people it has charged with his murder, but is shielding its crown prince from any blame.
1.dissident:someone who publicly criticizes the government in a country where this is punished
Sun Yat-sen was a prominent dissident who had been exiled from China.
孙文是从中国流亡的一位著名不同政见者。

The un Security Council lifted sanctions on Eritrea, which were imposed in 2009 over the country’s alleged support for armed groups in Somalia. Eritrea’s rapprochement with Ethiopia earlier this year and improved relations with Djibouti have raised hopes for a more stable Horn of Africa.

Who overcomes
Sri Lanka’s Supreme Court overturned the president’s order to dissolve parliament, which, in turn, voted to reject the prime minister the president had only just appointed, Mahinda Rajapaksa. It is not clear who is now in charge. 

Voters in Fiji chose between parties led by two former coup leaders in a general election. They plumped for the incumbent FijiFirst party, led by Frank Bainimarama, who has presided over relative political and economic stability for the past four years. 

A court in the Philippines sentenced Imelda Marcos, a politician and widow of Ferdinand Marcos, the country’s strongman of 20 years, up to 77 years in prison for corruption. She will remain free until she has exhausted her appeals. 