##China’s first privately run research university is a risky venture

He wants its students to be risk-takers, too

Hangzhou, a city south-west of Shanghai, is freighted with meaning for Shi Yigong. His grandmother, a Communist, was jailed there by the Nationalist government in the 1930s and died 18 days after giving birth to his father in prison.

Personal links drew Mr Shi to Hangzhou when he chose a location for the first private research university in China. He called it Westlake, after the scenic body of water for which the city is famed. The local government’s enthusiasm also helped. Hangzhou, though rich and historic, compares unfavourably with Beijing and Shanghai in terms of its intellectual endowment. Keen to host a top-class university, it offered Mr Shi tempting terms. Last month he presided over Westlake’s founding ceremony. The university’s first cohort of research students is around 140 strong. It hopes, eventually, to have thousands of students, including undergraduates.
1.endowment:a natural quality or ability that someone has
天赋，天资
2.cohort:a group of people of the same age, social class etc, especially when they are being studied

China already has around 700 private institutions among its 3,000-or-so universities, but most are vocational colleges which do not aspire to compete with the research universities at the top of the global tree. Westlake University does. Mr Shi, a former professor of molecular biology at Princeton who still holds senior posts at Tsinghua, a leading university in Beijing, has Caltech as his model. “This is the first ever research university supported by both government and the private sector in the People’s Republic of China,” he says. “We’re making history.”

Westlake, for now in temporary premises, will move into a grand purpose-built campus (its design is pictured) in three years’ time. It is private in two ways. One is its governance. Mr Shi stresses that the Communist Party will have a big role in the university. Three of the 12 seats on the managing council are taken by party officials who will play a “significant” part in decision-making. But the idea is that, unlike in other universities, the board of governors will have ultimate authority. Westlake is also partly privately financed. Although the local government is paying to build the new campus, the university also has private donors, including Pony Ma, the founder of Tencent, a tech giant, and Wang Jianlin, the founder of Dalian Wanda, a property-based conglomerate.

The point of Westlake is in part to carry out more ambitious research than happens in state universities. “I was very moved by Shi Yigong’s dream,” says Hongyun Tang, a researcher who previously worked in America. “The academic culture is like the States. We’re all dreaming of doing something big.” His colleague, Xu Li, another returnee from America, says of other Chinese universities: “They are chasing good publications but not meaningful research.” Mr Li says Westlake’s founder wants researchers “not to focus on small things, but to make big discoveries.”

Mr Shi’s ambitions reach beyond the bounds of the university. His aim is to make China more innovative by adding a dimension to the current educational system. Mr Shi laments that China’s contribution to science and technology in the past 400 years has been vastly below what it could have achieved. “There’s something etched into our brains: by the time we get to college, students have lost a major portion of their innovative potential,” he says. Mr Shi believes that if elite universities select students on the grounds not just of their test scores, but also of their intellectual maturity and social responsibility, this will influence the way pupils are taught at school, and change the way they think. “Westlake is the first such elite university in China. Our future success will result in the establishment of many more.”

As the dean of a department at Tsinghua—as high up the Chinese academic ladder as you can go—Mr Shi has a lot to lose if Westlake does not work. In his favour is the explicit endorsement of the venture by China’s leader, Xi Jinping. Mr Xi has form in allowing experiments in higher education. From 2002-07 he was the party boss of Zhejiang province, of which Hangzhou is the capital. During that time Mr Xi invited an American college, Kean University in New Jersey, to Zhejiang. Its campus is now up and running. Mr Xi wants China to become an intellectual power as well as an economic one. Against Mr Shi is the rivalrous nature of academia and China’s tradition of conservatism. “Everybody is watching him to see if he succeeds or fails,” says a colleague. “It’s a big risk.”