##Saudi Arabia’s leading commentator was murdered on October 2nd, aged 59
*[1]Increasingly, though, he put his native caution to one side.* As the years went on his journalistic career got *[2]bumpier*, usually because he tried to give a platform to voices from the opposition. He was fired from Al-Watan twice for that, in 2003 and 2010, on orders from the Ministry of Information; in 2015 a Saudi-funded news channel he had set up in Bahrain was closed down the day it opened, for interviewing a local activist. The government later banned him from Twitter, where he had 2m followers, and barred him from writing.
[1]不过，他越来越把自己天生的谨慎放在一边。
[2]bumpy:坎坷的，困难的

At the Saudi court he had ever fewer friends. Instead, by 2017, he *[3]banged* up sharply against the new regime of the young crown prince, Muhammad bin Salman. *[4]He was told he should be grateful for the prince’s reforms and keep quiet, but he could not make that Faustian bargain, or abide the growing cult of personality and centralised power.* Since even his mild criticism was not tolerated, he packed up a couple of cases and left for America.
[3]bang:to hit something hard, making a loud noise
The baby kept banging the table with his spoon. 
宝宝不停地拿调羹敲桌子。
[4]他被告知，他应该对王子的改革心存感激并保持沉默，但他无法达成浮士德式的交易，也无法忍受对个人和中央集权日益增长的崇拜。

*[5]Not a morning dawned, however, when he did not miss his country.* Washington seemed stiflingly clean. *[6]In Istanbul, he found solace in the back garden of an Arabic bookshop and in his love for a Turkish researcher, Hatice Cengiz. Hatice was headscarved and devout; hand in hand they strolled round the city, conversing stiffly in classical Arabic.* With three divorces behind him, he had paperwork to do before they could be married, and went to the Saudi consulate to sort it out.
[5]没有一个破晓之时，他不思念他的祖国。
[6]garden,bookshop,lover,stroll,a love story