Called on other countries to investigate his potential election rival

America’s Democrats promised subpoenas to make officials testify in their impeachment inquiry, after the White House said it would not co-operate. Having urged Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden, Donald Trump publicly called on China, too, to investigate his potential election rival. Meanwhile, Ukraine’s prosecutor general said he was reviewing a number of closed investigations, including a case against the energy firm that had employed Mr Biden’s son. He said he had not been put under any pressure to do so.

Turkey invaded northern Syria to crush Kurdish militias, after Donald Trump said he would pull American troops out of the region, giving Turkey a green light. President Trump was widely condemned for abandoning the Kurds, who fought alongside America against Islamic State and still guard captured IS prisoners in camps. He justified the betrayal by claiming that the Kurds “didn’t help us in the second world war”. Actually, they did. Kurds of the Assyrian Parachute Company fought for the Allies in Greece and Albania, among other places.

Protests against the government continued in Iraq. The authorities responded with force, killing more than100 people and wounding 4,000. The government also shut down the internet and imposed curfews, but it has been unable to fix the economy or curb graft.

An election observer in Mozambique was shot dead, allegedly by police, ahead of a presidential poll already marred by violence and irregularities.

North Korea and America resumed disarmament talks for the first time in seven months. But North Korea broke them off after a day, accusing America of intransigence. The dictatorship threatened to test more long-range missiles and nuclear bombs if it does not get more of what it wants by the end of the year.

The lower house of Malaysia’s parliament voted for a second time to repeal the country’s “fake news” law, which was imposed by the previous government to stifle criticism.

Thailand ordered owners of publicly accessible wireless networks to keep records of their customers’ identities or their browsing history, to help the authorities identify people who criticise the government or the monarchy.

New Zealand’s government said it would admit more refugees, and scrap rules that have impeded applicants from Africa and the Middle East.

Failed statecraft
Negotiations between the European Union and Britain over Brexit appeared close to collapse. Boris Johnson, Britain’s prime minister, had put forward a new deal he thought the House of Commons might accept, but the EU said it would be hard to resolve differences before the October 31st deadline. After Downing Street briefed that it was all the fault of Germany and Ireland, Donald Tusk, the president of the EU, told Mr Johnson to stop the “stupid blame game”. That was the mildest rebuke Mr Johnson has faced in recent weeks.

A gunman spouting anti- Semitic slogans killed two people in the German city of Halle and tried to force his way into a synagogue.

Portugal’s Socialist Party won the most seats in the country’s general election. But it fell short of an overall majority, suggesting that the prime minister, António Costa, will again have to seek allies on the radical left.

In Ecuador protesters complained about the withdrawal of fuel subsidies, at one point forcing their way into parliament. The unrest, the worst the country has seen for years, prompted the government to move temporarily from the capital, Quito, to the port city of Guayaquil. Lenín Moreno, the president, defended the cuts. His supporters pointed out that the subsidies were costly, wasteful and ecologically damaging. But they are popular.

Álvaro Uribe, Colombia’s president from 2002 to 2010, was questioned before the supreme court about accusations that through his lawyer he had tried to bully and bribe witnesses to retract claims that he had helped set up a unit of a paramilitary group in the 1990s. In 2012 Iván Cepeda, a left-leaning senator, first accused Mr Uribe of having links to paramilitary groups. Mr Uribe denies wrongdoing.

It emerged that Bernie Sanders suffered a heart attack when he was admitted to hospital with what his campaign had described as “chest discomfort”. He vowed to appear at the next Democratic debate.

Microsoft uncovered attempts by hackers linked to the Iranian government to target email accounts associated with an American presidential campaign, reportedly Mr Trump’s. Though unsuccessful in their cyberattack, Microsoft said the hackers were “highly motivated” and “willing to invest significant time and resources” in their endeavour.

Sentence:
President Trump was widely condemned for abandoning the Kurds, who fought alongside America against Islamic State and still guard captured IS prisoners in camps.
特朗普总统因抛弃库尔德人而受到广泛谴责，库尔德人曾与美国并肩抗击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)，但仍在看守被抓获的伊斯兰国(IS)囚犯。

The government also shut down the internet and imposed curfews, but it has been unable to fix the economy or curb graft.
政府还关闭了互联网，实施了宵禁，但它一直无法修复经济或遏制腐败。

Ukraine’s prosecutor general said he was reviewing a number of closed investigations, including a case against the energy firm that had employed Mr Biden’s son.
乌克兰总检察长表示，他正在审查一些不公开的调查，包括一起针对雇用拜登儿子的能源公司的案件。

The unrest, the worst the country has seen for years, prompted the government to move temporarily from the capital, Quito, to the port city of Guayaquil.
这次动乱是该国多年来最严重的一次，迫使政府暂时从首都基多转移到港口城市瓜亚基尔。

He said he had not been put under any pressure to do so.
他说，他没有受到任何压力要他这么做。