The path to driverless vehicles is long and winding
China is taking an alternative route to the West’s

The self-driving cars that cruise around South Ronghua Road look just like their American counterparts: chunky sedans with a rack of sensors bolted to the roof and a supercomputer in the boot. Beijing’s government has dubbed this southeastern patch of the city Beijing-e-Town. It is one of a growing number of urban spaces across China designated for testing autonomous vehicles (AVs). Digital lane markers can switch parts of the road to AV-only on demand. Signs announce “National Test Roads”. Cars bear the decals of China’s leading AV companies: Baidu, Pony.ai, WeRide.

For years Western carmakers have promised a world awash with AVs by now, making roads safer and less congested (see table on next page). That it is not shows just how tough a computational and regulatory nut self-driving is to crack. It increasingly seems that if AVs are to become widespread, it may happen first not in the West but in China. A fleet of Chinese firms hope to profit handsomely in the process.

That may seem counterintuitive. Technologically, the West appears streets ahead. “Everybody is behind Waymo and Cruise,” concedes a senior Chinese AV executive, referring, respectively, to a subsidiary of Alphabet (Google’s holding company), and of General Motors (GM), a giant carmaker. Waymo’s cars alone have self driven more miles than all Chinese AVs put together. Cruise has attracted $6.2bn of investment since GM bought the startup for $1bn in 2016. CB Insights, a research firm, estimates that $11.9bn has been invested in American AV firms since 2014, compared with $4.4bn in China.

It also requires input from companies beyond dedicated AV-makers. Mobile-network operators, such as China Mobile, and telecoms-equipment manufacturers, like Huawei, are building technology into their systems which may in time help cars along the road. Huawei wants its zippy 5G mobile antennas to take on a large part of the processing required to run an av—and a chunk of av profits. That leaves a smaller share of the pie for AV companies. But the pie itself should grow more quickly. Lowering the cost of infrastructure per av deployed should accelerate its roll-out, notes Feng Hao of Bosch, a German engineering conglomerate which supplies high-tech components to Chinese carmakers.

In a recent speech China’s minister of industry and information technology, Miao Wei, said that the market for connected vehicles is projected to be worth 100bn yuan ($14bn) by next year. And as with just about anything, the potential demand for AVs among 1.4bn Chinese is huge—$2trn by 2040, reckon consultants at McKinsey.

Chinese firms may prosper well before the eventual arrival of all-out AVs. They already benefit from the leapfrog effect, says Wei Zhou, boss of China Creation Ventures, a venture-capital fund. Cowa Robot, one of his firm’s investments, has sold autonomous street-sweeping robots to authorities in Changsha, the capital of Hunan province. Horizon Robotics, which is valued at $3bn, furnishes specialised AV computers for companies like Cowa.

The ability to make money now by automating simpler tasks keeps the firms going on the way to fuller autonomy—a luxury few American rivals, up against powerful incumbents like municipal-services companies, enjoy. At the same time, they are shielded from foreign competition by rules that limit overseas av companies to minority stakes in Chinese-led joint-ventures.

Sentence:
The self-driving cars that cruise around South Ronghua Road look just like their American counterparts: chunky sedans with a rack of sensors bolted to the roof and a supercomputer in the boot.
在荣华南路上行驶的自动驾驶汽车看起来就像它们的美国同行:笨重的轿车，车顶上栓着一排传感器，后备箱里装着一台超级计算机。

Digital lane markers can switch parts of the road to AV-only on demand.Signs announce “National Test Roads”.
数字车道标记可以根据需要将部分道路切换为AV专用。标志上写着“全国试验道路”。

Cars bear the decals of China’s leading AV companies: Baidu, Pony.AI, WeRide.
汽车上印有中国领先的AV公司的标志:Baidu, Pony.AI, WeRide.

That it is not shows just how tough a computational and regulatory nut self-driving is to crack.
它并没有显示出自动驾驶在计算和监管方面有多么困难。

crack:to find the answer to a problem or manage to understand something that is difficult to understand
I think we’ve cracked the problem of the computer crashing all the time.
我想我们已经解决了电脑总是崩溃的难题。
It took them nearly two months to crack the code.
他们花了将近两个月的时间才破译这个密码。
This new evidence could help detectives to crack the case.
这个新证据可以帮助警探侦破此案。

That may seem counterintuitive.Technologically, the West appears streets ahead.
这似乎违反直觉。从技术上讲，西方似乎遥遥领先。

Nor are Chinese AV developers immune from the biggest problem which afflicts their Western rivals.
中国的AV开发商也未能幸免于困扰其西方竞争对手的最大问题。