Alexei Leonov
The first man to walk in space and create art there, died on October 11th, aged 85

Climbing from the open airlock of Voskhod-2, Alexei Leonov felt quite calm. He was cool-headed, focused. This often disappointed people. “What!” they would exclaim. “The door into the universe had been opened, and you felt nothing?” They forgot that he had been through all that training at the Star City cosmonaut school, jumping into deep water, acrobatics, and the rest. They forgot that his head was full of data and instructions. All the same, as he released one hand, then one foot, then the whole of him, until only a 5.5-metre rope held him to the world of men, he could feel a smile starting on his face and spreading. He was calm mostly because he was enthralled. He spread his bulky suited arms, kicked his legs and floated, free. In the silence he could hear only his heartbeat and his heavy breathing. Stars were all around him against a coal-black sky. They did not blink.

Below him, 500km below, lay the Black Sea. He knew it well, not only as a Russian patriot, but because he had visited its shores dozens of times. Now, on March 18th 1965, he saw it whole, gun-metal grey, with a tiny dot of a ship on it that seemed caught from all sides in a flow of light. He too was a dot, a grain of sand in the near blinding dazzle of the unobscured sun. It came through his visor like a welder’s torch. He saw the Earth revolve, the only moving thing apart from himself. What struck him most forcibly was how round it was, how beautiful, and how blue.

His reverie ended in near-disaster. In the vacuum of space his space suit expanded, until he could not get back into the craft without bleeding it of oxygen. Moreover, in minutes, the craft’s orbit would take it into total darkness. Training kicked in; he kept his nerve and at last, drenched in sweat, tumbled head-first back through the airlock. Then the craft’s re-entry went wrong. The guidance system failed and they had to steer manually, bumping down in a snowy forest 1,600km from the landing site. They waited two nights to be rescued, wondering whether bears or wolves would get them first. Yet the elation did not leave him. Partly this was because the mishaps were officially hushed up, leaving only his triumph. And there were other reasons.

Sentence:
They forgot that he had been through all that training at the Star City cosmonaut school, jumping into deep water, acrobatics, and the rest.
他们忘记了他曾在星城宇航员学校接受过所有的训练，包括跳进深水、杂技等等。

They forgot that his head was full of data and instructions.
他们忘记了他的脑子里装满了数据和指令。

In the silence he could hear only his heartbeat and his heavy breathing.
在寂静中，他只能听到自己的心跳和沉重的呼吸声。

Stars were all around him against a coal-black sky.They did not blink.
在漆黑的天空衬托下，他周围星星点点。他们没有眨眼。

Partly this was because the mishaps were officially hushed up, leaving only his triumph.
部分原因是这些不幸被官方掩盖了，只留下他的胜利。