A court in Pakistan sentenced the brother of Qandeel Baloch, a social-media star, to life in prison for her murder. He said he had killed her to preserve the family’s honour, after she posted pictures of herself online. Activists for women’s rights had feared he would be acquitted, since his parents had absolved him of blame, a factor Pakistani courts often take into account.

Afghans voted in a presidential election. The Taliban had vowed to disrupt the polling, which nonetheless was relatively peaceful. Turnout was extremely low. The results will not be announced until November.

North Korea agreed to resume disarmament talks with America after a hiatus of eight months. It later tested a missile, which it said it launched from a submarine near its coast into Japanese waters.

Vizcarra’s victory
Peru’s president, Martín Vizcarra, dissolved the country’s congress, which has obstructed his legislative programme, and proposed to hold a congressional election in January. Congress refused to accept its dissolution and voted to suspend Mr Vizcarra as president. It installed the vice-president in his place, but she quit after just hours in the job.

Guyana is to hold elections on March 2nd. The government lost a vote of confidence last December. Next year Guyana is expected to begin receiving revenue from vast reserves of oil discovered offshore. The IMF thinks that its economy may grow by 85%.

Prosecutors in New York alleged that the younger brother of the Honduran president, Juan Orlando Hernández, had accepted $1m from Joaquín Guzmán, a Mexican drug baron known as “El Chapo”, that was intended for the president. Mr Hernández said the claim was absurd, and noted that prosecutors never alleged that he had received the money.

On a mission
Democrats in the House of Representatives pushed ahead with an impeachment investigation of Donald Trump’s request to the Ukrainian president to dig up dirt on the son of his rival, Joe Biden. Subpoenas were sent to Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, and to Rudolph Giuliani, the president’s lawyer. In a Twitter meltdown, Mr Trump claimed the Democrats were staging a “coup”.

Bernie Sanders cancelled events in his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination until further notice, after he had heart stents inserted to relieve some chest pains. The 78-year-old has kept up a gruelling campaign schedule.

In a closely watched case, a judge ruled that Harvard does not discriminate against Asian-Americans in its applications process, finding that it passes “constitutional muster”. The plaintiffs argued that Harvard’s affirmative-action policy favours black and Hispanic applicants. The matter will probably end up in the Supreme Court.

Sebastian Kurz and his People’s Party were the clear winners in Austria’s snap election, caused after his government collapsed following a scandal connecting his coalition partners, the Freedom Party, and Russian money. However, he is still short of a majority, and is casting around for an alternative to join a new government.

Some 20,000 people took to the streets in Moscow to demand the release of those arrested in earlier demonstrations over the exclusion of opposition figures from a city council election.

A tinderbox
As many as 25 soldiers were killed and another 60 are missing after jihadists attacked two army bases in Mali. Separately al-Shabab, a jihadist group affiliated with al-Qaeda, attacked a convoy of Italian troops and an air base used by American forces in Somalia. The attacks highlight the deteriorating security across the Sahel and into the Horn of Africa.

At a pre-trial hearing lawyers for Binyamin Netanyahu, Israel’s prime minister, argued that he should not be charged with corruption. The attorney general will decide whether to proceed with the indictments. Meanwhile, talks between Mr Netanyahu’s Likud party and Blue and White, a centrist party, over forming a government have stalled.

Hundreds of people protested in Lebanon as the government grappled with a worsening economic crisis. Enormous debt and shrinking foreign investment have led to fears that the Lebanese pound will be devalued and prices raised. Iraqis also took to the streets to protest against unemployment and corruption. Security forces responded with live fire; at least 18 people were killed and hundreds wounded.

Software developers in Lagos, Nigeria’s main commercial city, started a campaign against harassment by the police, who single out people carrying laptops or smartphones for extortion. The arrests threaten a boom in startups.

Uganda banned people from wearing red berets, which are associated with an opposition movement led by Bobi Wine. Mr Wine was recently charged with “annoying” the president.

Sentence:
Bernie Sanders cancelled events in his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination until further notice, after he had heart stents inserted to relieve some chest pains.
伯尼·桑德斯取消了他的民主党总统候选人提名活动，直到另行通知，在他植入心脏支架以缓解胸痛之后。

In a closely watched case, a judge ruled that Harvard does not discriminate against Asian-Americans in its applications process, finding that it passes “constitutional muster”.
在一起备受关注的案件中，一名法官裁定，哈佛大学在申请过程中不歧视亚裔美国人，认为它符合“章程规定”。

The plaintiffs argued that Harvard’s affirmative-action policy favours black and Hispanic applicants.
原告认为哈佛的倾向性政策对黑人和西班牙裔申请人有利。

The matter will probably end up in the Supreme Court.
这件事可能由最高法院裁决。

The attacks highlight the deteriorating security across the Sahel and into the Horn of Africa.
这些袭击事件凸显了萨赫勒地区乃至非洲之角地区安全局势的恶化。

Software developers in Lagos, Nigeria’s main commercial city, started a campaign against harassment by the police, who single out people carrying laptops or smartphones for extortion.
尼日利亚主要商业城市拉各斯的软件开发商发起了一场反对警察骚扰的运动，警察专门挑出携带笔记本电脑或智能手机的人进行敲诈勒索。

The arrests threaten a boom in startups.
逮捕行动威胁到了初创企业的繁荣。