Playing defence
Antitrust concerns were also voiced when United Technologies Corporation announced its intention to merge its aerospace business with Raytheon, creating a $166bn behemoth in the industry. utc provides electronics and communications systems mainly to commercial airlines and Raytheon sells defence equipment, including the Patriot missile system, to the Pentagon. They hope the civil/military split of their interests will satisfy competition regulators. Donald Trump has already waded in, suggesting that the new “big, fat, beautiful company”, will raise costs for America’s armed forces.

The proposed merger of T-Mobile and Sprint, first floated in April last year, faced a fresh hurdle as a group of American states led by California andNewYork launched a lawsuit to block it. The states are challenging the deal because it is “exactly the sort of consumer-harming, job-killing mega-merger our antitrust laws are designed to prevent”, according to Letitia James,New York’s attorney-general.

The trade dispute between America and China was the hot topic at Foxconn’s first investor conference. The Taiwanese contract electronics manufacturer said customers were concerned about uncertainties surrounding trade arrangements, but it assured Apple that it could move production of the iPhone and other devices away from its factories in China if need be. Around 25% of Foxconn’s capacity is based in factories outside China. Foxconn also rejigged its management in preparation for Terry Gou’s departure as chairman to run for president of Taiwan.

Worries over trade continued to unsettle global markets. “The rising threat of protectionism” was citied by Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, as one factor in its decision on
June 6th to postpone further rises in interest rates until at least the middle of 2020. Mr Draghi pledged to use “all instruments” under his control to avert an economic setback in the euro zone.

Market jitters caused investors to flee to safe assets. The German government sold ten-year Bunds at a yield of -0.24%, meaning the buyers will lose money if they hold the bonds until they mature. It was the bond’s lowest yield on record in a direct auction.

Jean-Dominique Senard, Renault’s chairman, admitted that relations with Nissan, the French carmaker’s alliance partner, were tense, but said that they could rebuild trust. Mr Senard was speaking at his first shareholders’ meeting since taking up his position in January, after Carlos Ghosn’s arrest in Tokyo for alleged financial misdeeds at Nissan. The French government, which holds a 15% stake in Renault, has undermined Mr Senard recently, most spectacularly by thwarting the company’s attempt to merge with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. Mr Senard said he had been “saddened” by the state’s meddling.

Volkswagen ended its association with Aurora, a self-driving- vehicles startup, clearing the way for it to work with Argo, a similar outfit that Ford, which launched a partnership with vw this year, has invested in. This week Argo expanded testing of its fleet of autonomous cars to Detroit, the historic home of carmaking.

Salesforce, a highly acquisitive cloud-based software company, struck its biggest deal to date when it offered $15.7bn for Tableau, a provider of computer- graphics for data bods.

Insys, which makes a fentanylbased painkiller spray, filed for bankruptcy protection, days after it settled with the federal government for its marketing of the product. Many of the pharmaceutical companies blamed for America’s opioid crisis face potentially large legal claims; they stand accused of pushing the drugs. In what it described as an “unprecedented action”, the British government ordered Whirlpool to recall up to 500,000 tumble dryers over safety concerns. The American maker of white goods issued a warning in 2015 that certain brands of dryers might catch fire, but rather than issue a recall it tried to fix them.

Beyond Meat had a rollercoaster week on the stockmarket. The American fakemeat company’s already buoyant share price soared after its first earnings report since going public in May revealed a boom in sales. But investors lost their appetite when an analyst warned that the stock was overpriced, sending the price down by a quarter.

A new chapter
Elliott Management, a hedge fund, agreed to acquire Barnes & Noble in a $683m deal. Elliott also owns Waterstones, a British chain of bookstores that is thriving despite predictions that Amazon would kill it off. James Daunt, who, as managing director, is credited with reviving Waterstones is also to run Barnes & Noble, where he will hope to turn the page on the American bookseller’s declining fortunes.

The government of the Australian state of Queensland issued the final approvals for the proposed Carmichael coal mine, to be built by Adani, an Indian conglomerate. Environmentalists oppose the mine, arguing that coal threatens the climate and the Great Barrier Reef.

The Peronist revival
Mauricio Macri made a surprising selection for his running- mate in Argentina’s presidential election in October: Miguel Ángel Pichetto, who leads the Peronist bloc in the senate. The other presidential ticket will be all-Peronist, including Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, a former president. Previous Peronist regimes have borrowed and splurged with unusual recklessness.

Jair Bolsonaro, Brazil’s president, contradicted the country’s central bank when he claimed a plan to create a monetary union with Argentinawas under consideration. The central bankwas further ruffled when Mr Bolsonaro said that a single currency could one day be used throughout South America.

Sentence:
Market jitters caused investors to flee to safe assets.
市场的恐慌导致投资者转向安全资产。

The German government sold ten-year Bunds at a yield of -0.24%, meaning the buyers will lose money if they hold the bonds until they mature.
德国政府以-0.24%的收益率出售了10年期国债，这意味着如果买家持有这些债券直至到期，他们将蒙受损失。

It was the bond’s lowest yield on record in a direct auction.
在直接拍卖中，这是该债券有记录以来的最低收益率。

Volkswagen ended its association with Aurora, a self-driving- vehicles startup, clearing the way for it to work with Argo, a similar outfit that Ford, which launched a partnership with VW this year, has invested in.
大众终止了与自动驾驶汽车初创企业Aurora的合作，为其与Argo的合作扫清了道路。今年，福特(Ford)与大众建立了合作关系，并对Argo进行了投资。

Salesforce, a highly acquisitive cloud-based software company, struck its biggest deal to date when it offered $15.7bn for Tableau, a provider of computer- graphics for data bods.
Salesforce是一家高度收购意识的云计算软件公司。该公司以157亿美元收购数据仓库电脑图形提供商Tableau，达成了迄今最大的一笔交易。

Insys, which makes a fentanylbased painkiller spray, filed for bankruptcy protection, days after it settled with the federal government for its marketing of the product.
生产芬太尼(fentanylbased)止痛药喷雾剂的Insys在与联邦政府就该产品的营销达成和解几天后，申请了破产保护。

Many of the pharmaceutical companies blamed for America’s opioid crisis face potentially large legal claims;
许多被指责对美国阿片类药物危机负有责任的制药公司面临着潜在的巨额法律索赔;
they stand accused of pushing the drugs.
他们被指控贩卖毒品。

In what it described as an “unprecedented action”, the British government ordered Whirlpool to recall up to 500,000 tumble dryers over safety concerns.
英国政府出于安全考虑，下令惠而浦召回多达50万台滚筒式烘干机，并称这是一项“前所未有的行动”。

The American maker of white goods issued a warning in 2015 that certain brands of dryers might catch fire, but rather than issue a recall it tried to fix them.
这家美国白色家电制造商在2015年发出警告称，某些品牌的烘干机可能会起火，但该公司没有召回这些产品以便试图修复这些问题。

Jair Bolsonaro, Brazil’s president, contradicted the country’s central bank when he claimed a plan to create a monetary union with Argentinawas under consideration.
巴西总统贾尔•博尔索纳罗(Jair Bolsonaro)声称，正在考虑与阿根廷建立货币联盟的计划，这与巴西央行的说法相矛盾。

The central bank was further ruffled when Mr Bolsonaro said that a single currency could one day be used throughout South America.
当博尔索纳罗先生说有一天单一货币可以在整个南美洲使用时，中央银行更加恼火。