Stephen Schwarzman, one of the founders of Blackstone, donated £150m ($190m) to Oxford University, the biggest gift to a British institution of learning in modern times. The private-equity investor said the money would help research into artificial intelligence, which governments “are utterly unprepared to deal with”. Last year he promised to give $350m to MIT.

Facebook announced plans for a new global digital currency, to be named Libra. Supported by almost 30 companies so far, including Uber, Visa and Vodafone, Facebook hopes to allow users to send money across borders for little cost, and to provide financial services to the1.7bn people around the world without a bank account. The companywants to launch Libra next year, but even if it can persuade customers to use the currency, it must first negotiate a maze of regulatory pathways. Facebook should expect some pushback from the authorities, given its troubling record on privacy issues.

Mario Draghi said that the European Central Bank would “use all the flexibility within our mandate” if the euro zone’s inflation outlook did not improve. The doveish comments from the ecb’s president triggered a sharp fall in the euro. That didn’t please Donald Trump, who tweeted that “Mario D”was manipulating the currency. Mr Draghi retorted:“We have our remit”.

Meddling in monetary policy
At its latest meeting the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged, but signalled it would clip them in the months ahead. Mr Trump had wanted an immediate cut. He has stepped up his criticism of the Fed, saying it has been “very disruptive”, and has reportedly asked for advice about whether he can sack Jerome Powell as chairman, raising more questions about how far the president will go to interfere with its independence.

India raised tariffs on 28 American goods in retaliation for the Trump administration’s decision to remove the country’s trade privileges in a row over protectionism. The list of American exports targeted include almonds and apples, for which India is a big market.

Ren Zhengfei, the boss of Huawei, said the company will lose $30bn in revenue because of America’s ban on telecoms equipment made by the Chinese tech giant. He didn’t say how he arrived at the figure.

PG&E reached a settlement with local governments in California affected by wildfires sparked by the power-provider’s equipment. It is to shell out $1bn, $270m of which will go to Paradise, a town largely destroyed in last year’s Camp Fire. It is the company’s first big settlement since seeking bankruptcy protection in January; more will come.

Odebrecht filed for bankruptcy protection, the biggest-ever such filing in Latin America. The Brazilian construction company is at the centre of a corruption scandal that has brought down some of Brazil’s leading politicians. It blamed the scandal for its bankruptcy, as well as Brazil’s “economic crisis”. It will operate normally while it restructures its debt; Brazil’s state-run banks are expected to lose out.

The Canadian government gave its approval for expanding the Trans Mountain Pipeline, which transports crude oil from Alberta to shipping terminals in Vancouver. The additional pipeline would increase Trans Mountain’s capacity by two-thirds, but is bitterly opposed by greens and some indigenous groups.

The art world was taken aback by the news that Patrick Drahi, a French telecoms tycoon, is buying Sotheby’s for $3.7bn. The auction house, founded in London in 1744 but now with headquarters in New York, has been a publicly listed company for 31years. With Mr Drahi taking it private, Sotheby’s hopes to build the layers of its digital business, such as more online-only art sales and matching prospective buyers with particular works.

The race among drug companies to acquire firms developing new cancer treatments produced another takeover, as Pfizer agreed to buy Array BioPharma in an $11.4bn transaction.