Did he or didn’t he?

Claus von Bülow, socialite and protagonist of two sensational American trials, died on May 25th, aged 92

The “von Bülow” itself was slightly misleading. His father’s side was Danish; his mother, whose name was Bülow, had distant German nobility. His English upbringing endowed him with a Cambridge degree and a call to the bar, but the aristocratic “von” had been added when he and Sunny married, in 1966. He was the one who collected Chippendale and ormolu furniture, but she was the one who had Clarendon Court, as well as a 14-room apartment on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, in which to put it. Opera and theatre were his passions, and he loved to drop classical allusions as well as names; back in Newport during his second trial, greeted by his labradors, he felt “like Ulysses returning”. But it was Sunny, whose first marriage had been to an Austrian prince, who brought most of the dukes, diamonds and gala nights into his life.

His feelings for Sunny changed in different lights. They had been happy early on and had a daughter, Cosima, whom he adored. He and Sunny fell out because she did not like him working; she did not mind his mistresses, as long as he was discreet. In sum she was a fair and decent human being who would, he thought, have been his strongest defender. He wore his wedding ring at the trials, though he had to get it back from Ms Isles. He spoke of wanting to visit Sunny, who lay comatose for 28 years until she died, but he moved to London by agreement with the stepchildren, giving up too any claim to her fortune. In Knightsbridge his life revolved round amusing dinner parties, theatre reviewing and quiet acts of charity. He complained that “Reversal of Fortune”, a film of his trials made in 1990, did not tell the truth in dozens of small ways. He did not say what the truth actually was. In the end, the film had left the verdict open. He preferred to be seen as he generally was in London, as the victim of a miscarriage of justice.

He did not make that claim himself; he had agreed not to mention the case. Instead, he saw it as a tragedy that satisfied “all of Aristotle’s definitions”. Everyone was wounded. As for him, he was a tragic hero straight out of the “Poetics”: neither a villain nor a virtuous man, but someone in between. His misfortune had occurred not because of depravity, but by some error, some ambiguous action. It was hardly surprising that there could be no catharsis.

Sentence:
It was hardly surprising that there could be no catharsis.
没有宣泄，这并不奇怪。