Politics this week
More Venezuelans took to the streets to demand that Nicolás Maduro, who rigged an election last year, step down in favour of the head of the national assembly, Juan Guaidó, as the constitution prescribes. Mr Guaidó is recognised by most Latin American democracies, as well as the United States and Canada. Several European countries said they would recognise Mr Guaidó unless elections are called soon. Mr Maduro, whose misrule has led to hyperinflation and food shortages, retains the support of Russia, Turkey and, lukewarmly, China. Mr Guaidó said he had held secret talks with the Venezuelan army to persuade it to switch sides. America said that payments for oil imports from Venezuela would be put into accounts that would be available only to a democratic government. 

It’s my way or the Huawei
Canada’s prime minister, Justin Trudeau, fired his country’s ambassador to China, John McCallum. Mr McCallum had ruffled feathers when he suggested that Meng Wanzhou, a senior executive of Huawei, a technology firm, might have strong grounds to challenge a request for her extradition from Canada to the United States to face fraud charges.

The Supreme Court of Pakistan rejected a petition calling for a review of its earlier decision to acquit Asia Bibi, a Christian woman accused of blasphemy. Rioting zealots had previously called for her to be hanged anyway. This time protests were muted, as 3,000 zealots had been locked up. 

Two bombs exploded near a cathedral in the Philippines, killing 20 people and injuring many more. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack, which came just after voters in the Muslim-majority region voted in favour of more political autonomy. 

American officials said they were making progress in talks with the Taliban about ending the war in Afghanistan. America has offered to withdraw its forces if the Taliban promise not to harbour terrorists, stop fighting and begin talks with the Afghan government. 

An artless deal
The government shutdown in America ended on January 26th after 35 days, making it the longest in history. President Donald Trump blinked first in his dispute with Congress, having promised to keep the government closed until he received funding to build a wall on the Mexican border. But he warned there would be another shutdown—or that he would declare a national emergency—if legislators did not fund his wall by February 15th. 

Roger Stone, a former adviser to Mr Trump, was arrested in Florida. The office of Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating links between Russia and Mr Trump’s election campaign, levelled seven charges against Mr Stone, including witness tampering and obstructing an official proceeding. 

Time to smell the coffee
Howard Schultz, a former boss of Starbucks, said he was considering running as an independent candidate in the next presidential election. Critics warned that doing so would split the anti-Trump vote, thus helping the president to secure another term. 

A polar vortex froze the American Midwest, with temperatures falling to -33ºC in Chicago. At least eight people have died because of the inclement weather. 

Britain’s Parliament voted to back the Brexit deal proposed by Theresa May, the prime minister, so long as she replaces the Irish “backstop”, which seeks to avoid a hard border in Ireland, with some unspecified alternative. Michel Barnier, the EU’s lead negotiator, said he was unwilling to reconsider the previous agreement. Jeremy Corbyn, Britain’s opposition leader, met Mrs May to discuss options. 

Greece voted to recognise Macedonia, its neighbour, under the new name of North Macedonia. The agreement opens the door to North Macedonia’s admission to the EU and nato.

Gilets jaunes protesters in France set up not one but two new political parties. Neither sounds coherent. One vows to “remake politics around the heart and empathy”. Other gilets jaunes denounced the party-builders for selling out. 

Pride, swallowed
Matteo Salvini, Italy’s deputy prime minister, asked his government to bar prosecutors from pressing potential kidnapping charges against him. He is in trouble over his order to stop 177 migrants from leaving a boat. Mr Salvini had previously welcomed the trial, saying he was proud to defend his country.

Zimbabwe’s police and army have been accused of mass rapes, beatings and robbery while crushing protests against costly fuel.

Benny Gantz, a retired general, jumped in opinion polls after launching his campaign for Israel’s parliamentary elections, due in April. No one is sure what he stands for, but Mr Gantz’s new party is expected to win more than 20 seats in the 120-seat Knesset. Likud, the party of Binyamin Netanyahu, the prime minister, is expected to win 30 or so.

More than 130 people are feared to have drowned off the coast of Djibouti after two boats carrying migrants capsized. The vessels were carrying people from Africa to the Arabian peninsula, where they were hoping to seek work.

A judicial commission into corruption in South Africa has heard testimony from a businessman that government officials and members of the ruling African National Congress were put on monthly retainers, paid bribes and given gifts including sports cars by a firm that won government contracts. The daughter of one minister was also offered driver training because she kept crashing the cars she had been given.

Sentence:

President Donald Trump blinked first in his dispute with Congress, having promised to keep the government closed until he received funding to build a wall on the Mexican border.
美国总统唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)在与国会的争执中首先让步，承诺将一直关闭政府，直到获得在墨西哥边境修建一堵墙的资金。

More than 130 people are feared to have drowned off the coast of Djibouti after two boats carrying migrants capsized.
两艘载有移民的船只在吉布提海岸翻船，130多人恐已溺亡。

The vessels were carrying people from Africa to the Arabian peninsula, where they were hoping to seek work.
这些船只将人们从非洲运送到阿拉伯半岛，他们希望在那里找到工作。