The mood music in negotiations over an agreement to solve the trade conflict between America and China improved considerably. Donald Trump remarked that he would be willing to extend a deadline of March 1st if the talks are making progress.

South Korea’s unemployment rate leapt to 4.5% in January, a nine-year high. The economy grew at its weakest pace in six years in 2018, weighed down by the trade dispute between China and America.

Airbus decided to stop production of the a380 super-jumbo jet, after Emirates Airline drastically cut its order. The world’s biggest passenger plane entered commercial service in 2007 following many production delays. At the time it symbolised the fierce competition between Airbus and Boeing to shape the future aviation market,with Boeing betting on its rival 787 Dreamliner. The a380 was supported by just a handful of carriers such as Emirates and Singapore Airlines, which has already scrapped the first two a380s it had flown.

Britain’s economy grew by 1.4% last year, the weakest pace in a decade. Brexit was clearly a factor, though other European countries are slowing, too. Britain’s economy outperformed Italy’s and was only slightly worse than Germany’s. The euro area saw growth slow during 2018, and forecasts do not indicate any improvement for this year. Britain’s inflation rate fell to 1.8% last month, mostly because of lower energy prices. Cheaper prices coupled with decent growth in real wages is a welcome relief for workers who have felt a squeeze in living standards.

Shifting gears
In a possible harbinger of debt problems, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported that 7m Americans are at least 90 days behind with their car loan payments, a million more than in the wake of the financial crisis. Although the overall pool of credit worthy car loans has improved, the FRBNY noted a sharp rise in delinquencies among borrowers under 30 years of age.

The chief executive of SunTrust said that the bank’s planned combination with BB&T would result in $100m being spent on innovative technology when the new company opens its headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina. The $66bn merger is the biggest in banking since the financial crisis.

A rise in bad-debt charges and a splurge on spending to improve its monitoring of money- laundering helped reduce fourth-quarter net profit at ABN AMRO by 42% compared with the same three months a year earlier, to €316m ($361m). The Dutch bank, which is still half-owned by the government a decade after its bail-out during the financial crisis, is redoubling its efforts against criminal activity following a spate of scandals at other banks in northern Europe, such as Danske.

After three years of restructuring, Credit Suisse reported an annual net profit of SFr 2.1bn ($2.1bn), the Swiss bank’s first since 2014.

An analysis of smartphone sales by IDC, a market-data firm, found that shipments of Apple’s iPhone in China slumped by 20% in the last quarter of 2018 compared with the same three months in 2017, while those of Huawei rose by 23%. Apple was China’s biggest provider of smartphones as recently as 2015. It has now slipped to fourth place.

Jab Holdings offered to increase its stake in Coty, a beauty company that owns a wide range of brands, including Max Factor and Calvin Klein fragrances, from 40% to 60%, following Coty’s troublesome acquisition of Procter & Gamble products. Although it is a longtime shareholder in Coty, privately held JAB has focused on expanding its food and beverages empire, snapping up Dr Pepper, Krispy Kreme and Pret A Manger in recent years.

Tata Motors’ share price struggled to recover from the hammering it took after it wrote down £3.1bn ($4bn) at its Jaguar Land Rover subsidiary. The write-down pushed Tata Motors to a $3.8bn quarterly loss, the largest-ever for an Indian company.

Twitter reported annual net income of $1.2bn for 2018, its first full year of profitability. But it also lost more monthly active users in the fourth quarter. Twitter said it would no longer publish that measurement of engagement, preferring a new count of daily users who see ads on its platform.

Brewer’s droop
A fall in quarterly sales at Molson Coors helped push its share price down by 9%. The company, which includes the Blue Moon, Carling and Miller Lite brands in its line up, is to focus on boosting its appeal among 21- to 34-year-olds, a group that is drinking less beer than it used to. Last year the company stopped making Two Hats, a citrus-flavoured brew peddled to millennials, after just six months. It might be able to narrow the generation gap when it launches Truss, a cannabis-beverage joint venture, in Canada later this year.

Sentence:
Cheaper prices coupled with decent growth in real wages is a welcome relief for workers who have felt a squeeze in living standards
对于生活水平受到挤压的工人来说，较低的价格加上实际工资的合理增长是一种可喜的解脱.