Business this week
A dam belonging to Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, collapsed in Brazil, killing at least 84 people. About 276 are still missing. The company’s share price has fallen by 18% since the collapse; investors fear a torrent of compensation claims and regulatory fines. The firm said that it will decommission dams similar to the one that collapsed, a move which will reduce its annual output of iron ore by 10%. 

In America, the Federal Reserve ditched its guidance to investors suggesting that further rises in interest rates lie ahead. The American central bank pledged to be “patient”, citing low inflation and recent economic turbulence as reasons not to raise rates. It also said it would slow down its policy of shrinking its balance-sheet if needed.

America’s Justice Department accused Huawei, a Chinese technology company, of a series of misdeeds including theft of intellectual property and the obstruction of justice. Huawei is also accused of duping four banks into violating sanctions on Iran, on which basis Canadian police arrested Meng Wanzhou, its chief financial officer, in December. America formally requested her extradition this week. If the allegations against Huawei are proven, American firms could be banned from selling it their technology. 

Norwegian Air said that it would try to raise NKr3bn ($350m) in a rights issue. The troubled carrier bet the house on making a success of low-cost flights across the Atlantic Ocean. But it is now paying the price for expanding too fast; last year it lost NKr3.8bn. IAG, an airline group that owns British Airways, recently pulled out of takeover talks with Norwegian and sold its stake in the airline.

The euro zone’s economy failed to bounce back in the final three months of 2018, with growth remaining at 0.2% in both the third and fourth quarters. Italy fell into recession over the period. Meanwhile, Spain’s unemployment rate fell to 14.5% in the last quarter of 2018, its lowest rate in a decade. Although 3.3m people in the country are still looking for work, the unemployment rate has fallen steadily since its peak of nearly 27% in 2013. 

Boeing, the American aerospace giant, announced that annual revenues last year exceeded $100bn for the first time, helped by strong demand for its commercial aircraft. Last year the firm received 20% more orders for its civil jets than its European rival, Airbus.

BuzzFeed, a news website once known for “listicles”, announced another round of job losses. BuzzFeed’s founder and chief executive, Jonah Peretti, said the company would reduce its headcount by 15%, or by about 250 jobs, according to the Wall Street Journal. Verizon Media Group, which owns rival websites such as HuffPost, Yahoo, and AOL, also said it would sack 800 employees.

No pig’s land
Denmark is to build a 70km fence along its German border to repel stray pigs. It will be constructed to stop the spread of African swine fever. The Danes, famed for their exports of bacon and other pork products, are worried about infected wild boar bringing the untreatable disease north, which could devastate livestock and hurt the country’s farming industry.

De Beers, the world’s largest producer of diamonds, said sales fell by a quarter at the start of this year. The mining giant is particularly being affected by slower economic growth in China, the world’s second-biggest consumer of the stones.

A government-appointed commission in Germany agreed that the country should phase out the use of coal by 2038. The body agreed that a total of at least €40bn ($46bn) should be provided in aid for coal-mining states affected by the move, which is less than the figure of around €60bn they had asked for. It is hoped that the new target will partly offset the extra carbon emissions caused by Germany’s abandonment of nuclear power, which its government announced in 2011.

Sailing high
Royal Caribbean, a cruise line based in America, announced that revenues in the last three months of 2018 rose by 16% and profits by 9.6%, year on year. Bookings for cruise holidays were unexpectedly healthy over the winter. Last year the company expanded by acquiring Silversea Cruises, a luxury brand, and launching into service the Symphony of the Seas, the largest passenger ship in the world by gross tonnage.