How to deal with the mullahs
The Islamic revolution has failed, but Donald Trump’s sanctions could prolong it

The cry of “Death to America!” has rung out in Tehran every Friday since the Islamic revolution of 1979. But the ritual is hollow. The mullahs know they have failed their people. Iranians are much poorer than they should be; promises of justice have been drowned in the blood of enemies and supposed sinners; and theocracy has made Iranians less pious. Protests occur often, even among the poor who make up the regime’s base (see Middle East & Africa section).

Yet the mullahs remain in charge, despite war, sanctions and decades of enmity with America—or perhaps because of them. To the alarm of Israel and many Arab states, Iran has spread its influence, helping save the odious regime of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, and ensuring that the Saudis remain bogged down in Yemen. Its Lebanese client, Hizbullah, poses a grave threat to Israel. In Europe Iranian spooks are accused of plotting to kill dissidents.

For President Donald Trump, Iran is a unique menace. He has abandoned Barack Obama’s nuclear deal in favour of tight sanctions. His officials will try to forge an anti-Iran alliance at a conference in Poland on February 13th-14th. In seeking “maximum pressure”, America may hope to stir another uprising to reverse the one of 1979. But it will probably make things worse.

The mullahs have a woeful record. Their theocracy helped turn Islam into a tool of radical, and often violent, politics. But Iran’s was not the Middle East’s only convulsion in 1979. The siege of the grand mosque in Mecca stung Saudi Arabia into promoting its rival Sunni brand of ultra-puritanism at home and abroad. Together with America, the Saudis helped weaponise Sunnism by supporting mujahideen fighters against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Arabs who volunteered to fight with them became the godfathers of jihadism. America, pledging to protect Gulf oil against outsiders, was drawn deep into the region’s conflicts.

America has rarely been able to think clearly about Iran; not least because the regime’s followers held 52 of its citizens hostage for 444 days after seizing the American embassy in Tehran in 1979. But if Iran has recently extended its power it is in large part because of the mess caused by America’s invasion of Iraq in 2003.

Iran is confusing and infuriating to deal with. Power is shared ambiguously between a weak president, who is elected from a field of loyalists and deals with day-to-day problems, and a nebulous revolutionary caste that controls the instruments of coercion. Sometimes Iran has proved pragmatic, for instance acquiescing in America’s overthrow of the Taliban in Afghanistan. Yet, under the supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, ideology often trumps rational policymaking. Neither confrontation nor diplomacy can reliably sway the mullahs. And neither economic carrots nor sanctions seem to work as an alternative.

That said, Mr Obama’s accord, the JCPOA, succeeded in freezing Iran’s nuclear programme in exchange for the lifting of many sanctions. Mr Trump thinks this was a terrible deal that failed to halt the nukes for good or stop Iran from stirring trouble around the region. Renewed sanctions are pushing Iran into a deep economic crisis. But re-imposing them when Iran was abiding by the JCPOA casts America as the rogue. This has deepened the split with European allies, which have created a system to help firms sidestep them. America has bound itself more tightly to autocratic Arab regimes, such as Saudi Arabia, that have themselves fomented instability and radicalism. What “moral clarity” can America claim in denouncing Iran’s human-rights abuses when it turns a blind eye to those committed by its friends?

Above all, indiscriminate sanctions are likely to strengthen Iran’s hardliners. American pressure gives them excuses for bad behaviour; adventurism abroad becomes self-defence; oligarchic control of the economy is portrayed as a means to bust sanctions; and critics are dismissed as puppets of the Great Satan. If Iran casts off the JCPOA’s nuclear constraints, America and Israel will have to choose between the risk of Iran building a nuclear bomb and the dangers of a bombing campaign to stop it.

America’s apparent efforts to bring down the regime are unappealing to most Iranians, given the bloody chaos they see all around. The mullahs are still willing to shoot opponents; few ordinary Iranians are yet ready to die trying to overthrow them. The best hope for change in Iran may come with the death of Ayatollah Khamenei, who is 79 and in poor health.

To nudge Iran towards normality, America needs to mix firmness with pragmatism, rather as it did in the cold war with the Soviet Union. This means containing Iran until its people grow weary of their rulers, and negotiating partial deals that limit the risk of outright conflict. America should seek unity with its own democratic allies and attempt to isolate Iran’s revolutionaries from their subjects. It should aim sanctions at hardliners rather than the country as a whole. It should do more to expose the regime’s brutality and corruption, counter its propaganda and increase contacts with Iranian citizens—giving them more visas to visit America, not fewer. And it should offer to talk to Ayatollah Khamenei. To him, America’s outstretched hand may be more terrifying than its fist.


Sentence:
The cry of “Death to America!
“美国去死吧!”
” has rung out in Tehran every Friday since the Islamic revolution of 1979.
自1979年伊斯兰革命以来，每周五都有这样的声音在德黑兰响起。
But the ritual is hollow.
但这种仪式是空洞的。
The mullahs know they have failed their people.
毛拉们知道他们辜负了人民。
Iranians are much poorer than they should be;
伊朗人比以前更穷了;
promises of justice have been drowned in the blood of enemies and supposed sinners;
正义的承诺已经淹没在敌人和所谓罪人的鲜血中;
and theocracy has made Iranians less pious.
神权政治使得伊朗人不那么虔诚。
Protests occur often, even among the poor who make up the regime’s base
抗议活动经常发生，即使是在构成政权基础的穷人中间
The mullahs have a woeful record.
毛拉们有着悲惨的记录。
Their theocracy helped turn Islam into a tool of radical, and often violent, politics.
他们的神权政治帮助伊斯兰教成为激进的，通常是暴力的政治工具。
But Iran’s was not the Middle East’s only convulsion in 1979.
但是伊朗并不是1979年中东唯一的动荡。
The siege of the grand mosque in Mecca stung Saudi Arabia into promoting its rival Sunni brand of ultra-puritanism at home and abroad.
麦加大清真寺被围困，促使沙特阿拉伯在国内外宣扬其竞争对手逊尼派的极端清教主义。
Together with America, the Saudis helped weaponise Sunnism by supporting mujahideen fighters against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
沙特和美国一起，通过支持圣战者抵抗苏联入侵阿富汗，帮助逊尼派武装起来。
Arabs who volunteered to fight with them became the godfathers of jihadism.
自愿与他们并肩作战的阿拉伯人成了圣战主义的教父。
America, pledging to protect Gulf oil against outsiders, was drawn deep into the region’s conflicts.
美国承诺保护海湾地区的石油不受外来者的影响，因此被深深卷入了该地区的冲突之中。
Yet, under the supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, ideology often trumps rational policymaking.
然而，在最高领袖阿里•哈梅内伊(Ali Khamenei)的领导下，意识形态往往胜过理性决策。
Neither confrontation nor diplomacy can reliably sway the mullahs.
无论是对抗还是外交都不能可靠地动摇毛拉。
And neither economic carrots nor sanctions seem to work as an alternative.
金钱和大棒似乎都不能作为替代方案。
America has bound itself more tightly to autocratic Arab regimes, such as Saudi Arabia, that have themselves fomented instability and radicalism.
美国与沙特阿拉伯等独裁阿拉伯国家的关系更加紧密，这些国家本身就煽动了不稳定和激进主义。
What “moral clarity” can America claim in denouncing Iran’s human-rights abuses when it turns a blind eye to those committed by its friends?
当美国对其盟友所犯下的罪行熟视无睹时，它在谴责伊朗侵犯人权方面又能有什么“道德清晰度”呢?