Dozens of schools were closed in France; temperatures there and other European countries have soared above 40℃.

Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was humiliated by voters, as his attempt to reverse the mayoral election in Istanbul, which his party had lost, backfired spectacularly. At his behest, the electoral board ordered a re-run, but this week the opposition challenger, Ekrem Imamoglu, won by a much larger margin than in March: 54% to 45%.

After three weeks of talks that followed an election, Denmark’s Social Democrats won the backing of smaller parties on the left to form a minority government headed by Mette Frederiksen as prime minister. The smaller parties agreed to support Ms Frederiksen only after she promised to water down the hard-line policies on immigration that her party had touted during the election.

Ukraine responded angrily to the decision of the Council of Europe, which is separate from the eu, to restore Russia’s voting rights. But supporters of the move said this would ensure that Russian citizens could lodge claims against their government at the European Court of Human Rights, a body of the council.

Boris Johnson and Jeremy Hunt emerged as the final two in the race to lead Britain’s Conservative Party and thus become prime minister. Mr Johnson is the favourite, but his bumbling style seems odd at a time of crisis. In an effort to revive his stumbling campaign he declared that Britain must leave the eu on October 31st, “do or die”. That went down well with Tory party members.

Hong Kong’s Supreme Court overturned the conviction of the territory’s former chief executive, Donald Tsang, for misconduct. His original sentence in 2017 was 20 months in prison.

North Korean media reported that the country’s dictator, Kim Jong Un, had received an “excellent” letter from Donald Trump. In mid-June Mr Trump said that he had received a “beautiful” letter from Mr Kim. The exchange suggests that talks between the pair on nuclear disarmament are making progress again.

The Australian Broadcasting Corporation said it would petition the courts to void a warrant that authorised the Australian police to raid its offices and seize documents related to a report it published in 2017 about abuses by Australian special forces in Afghanistan.

A shaky start
Jared Kushner unveiled the first half of the White House’s peace plan for Israel and Palestine. It proposes $50bn worth of investment in Palestine and neighbouring countries, but offers no solutions to the underlying conflict (those are expected later). Neither the Israelis nor the Palestinians attended a conference in Bahrain showcasing the plan.

Mr Trump imposed new sanctions on Iran’s leadership. This came after he ordered and then called off air strikes on military installations in the country in response to Iran’s downing of an American spy drone. Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader, said the sanctions marked the “permanent closure of the path of diplomacy”.

The chief of Ethiopia’s army and the president of the Amhara region were killed along with several other people in two incidents in what the government called an attempted coup. The government blamed the head of security in Amhara for the attacks. Hewas subsequently killed by the army.

Zimbabwe reintroduced its currency, the Zimbabwe dollar, amid a deepening economic crisis. It had abandoned the notes in 2009 after their value was destroyed by hyperinflation and instead adopted American dollars. The finance minister said the move would give the central bank more flexibility.

Back, with a vengeance?
Robert Mueller agreed to testify at an open session to Congress on July 17th. Evidence from the man who investigated Russian influence in the Trump campaign will make it the most eagerly awaited congressional hearing in years.

Republicans in Oregon’s state Senate refused to show up for work, thus denying a quorum for a vote on a bill that would introduce a carbon cap-andtrade system. The Democratic governor asked state troopers to find the absconders.

A photograph of a father from Guatemala and his 23-monthold daughter who both drowned trying to cross the Rio Grande intensified America’s debate on illegal immigration. Reports also emerged of 300 children being held in squalid conditions at a border station. The House of Representatives and the Senate passed competing packages on aid for the border to cope with the surge of migrants.

Border crisis
Mexico sent 15,000 troops to its border with the United States. It is the largest deployment to control migration that Mexico has ever undertaken. Donald Trump has demanded that Mexico do more to stop illegal immigration, mainly by Central Americans, or face export tariffs. Mexico had already sent 2,000 national guardsmen to help police its southern border.

At least three people were killed in protests against Honduras’s president, Juan Orlando Hernández. Doctors and teachers are demonstrating against plans to restructure the ministries of education and health, which they say will lead to privatisation.

Authorities in Spain arrested a Brazilian sergeant who flew in on a presidential plane carrying 39kg of cocaine. The aircraft was on its way to the g20 summit in Japan. Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, who was travelling on another aircraft, normally extols the armed forces. In this case he demanded “severe punishment” for the smuggler.

Tensions in the alliance betweenRenault and Nissan were on display at the latter’s annual shareholders’ meeting, the first since the arrest on financial-misconduct charges of Carlos Ghosn, who ran the alliance. Nissan’s investors directed most of their ire at Jean-Dominique Senard, Renault’s chairman, who has pushed for a full merger with Nissan and had threatened to scupper changes to its governance (Renault owns 43% of Nissan). At the meeting, Mr Senard admitted that the relationship between the two companieswas in a bad state.

BMW said it would have 25 new fully electric or hybrid models on the market by 2023, two years earlier than expected. Europe’s carmakers are accelerating their plans for cleaner vehicles in order to comply with stricter eu rules on car emissions.

A golden opportunity
Eldorado Resorts agreed to buy Caesars Entertainment in a $17.3bn deal that creates America’s biggest casino company. Caesars, which counts Caesars Palace, Bally’s and the Flamingo, all in Las Vegas, among its assets, is the bigger of the two. It had faced calls from Carl Icahn, an activist investor, to put itself up for sale to cut costs. Eldorado has no properties in Vegas, but it does own the Tropicana in Atlantic City.

The latest blockbuster deal in the drugs industry saw AbbVie stumping up $63bn for Allergan, best known for Botox, a skin-smoothing treatment popular with the more mature clientele. AbbVie is hunting for new sources of sales as the patent protection on Humira, its bestselling inflammatory treatment, will expire in America in 2023. Separately, Bristol-Myers Squibb’s merger with Celgene, valued at $90bn when it was announced in January, was delayed until at least the end of this year as it works to overcome antitrust concerns.

In its first week as a publicly listed company, Slack’s share price slipped below the $38.62 at which it closed on the first day of trading. The officemessaging service opted for a direct listing of its existing stock on the New York Stock Exchange rather than an ipo (through which new shares are issued), because it didn’t need to raise fresh capital, according to Stewart Butterfield, Slack’s chief executive.

Jerome Powell raised concerns about the world economy, warning that the “global risk picture has changed”, and that there was “greater uncertainty” over trade. The comments from the chairman of the Federal Reserve bolstered those who are betting on the central bank reducing interest rates in July. Mr Powell also stressed that the Fed won’t bow to pressure in its decisionmaking. In his latest outburst Donald Trump, who wanted the Fed to cut rates this month, tweeted that it “doesn’t know what it is doing” and is behaving “like a stubborn child”.

Financial regulators responded coolly to Facebook’s plan to launch a global digital currency, to be called Libra. Mark Carney, the governor of the Bank of England, said that Libra could become “systemic” and would “have to be subject to the highest standards of regulation”. Randal Quarles, the head of the Financial Stability Board, which advises the g20, warned that the use of “cryptoassets” deserves “close scrutiny”. Their comments, along with several others, suggest that Facebook will have to jump many hurdles to get Libra up and running.

The publicity surrounding Libra helped boost the price of cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin traded above $13,000, its highest level in 18 months, rekindling fears about a bubble in the market.

America’s Supreme Court overturned a long-standing ban on trademarks that use “immoral” or “scandalous” words on the grounds that it violated the right to free speech and had been imposed unevenly. The case was brought by the owner of a clothing line he brands as fuct (Friends U Can’t Trust).

Netflix is to lose the rights to broadcast the American version of “The Office” because nbcUniversal, the sitcom’s producer, wants to run it on its new, yet-to-be-named streaming service from 2021. “The Office” is Netflix’s most popular show in America. With rival streaming channels in the works from Disney, Warner- Media and others, Netflix faces the prospect of losing more content made by other companies, which, despite the plaudits for the media it produces in-house, accounts for the bulk of users’ viewing time.

A gripping yarn
An industry report suggested that the global market for spandex is expanding, with sales set to reach 1m tonnes by the end of 2020. The main reason is that demand for sports “shapewear” has stretched beyond the rich world to the emerging-market middle class. Invented in 1958 by a chemist in Virginia, the spandex industry is now highly elastic, with China accounting for 75% of the world’s production.

Sentence:
Ukraine responded angrily to the decision of the Council of Europe, which is separate from the EU, to restore Russia’s voting rights.
乌克兰对欧盟之外的欧洲委员会恢复俄罗斯投票权的决定做出愤怒回应。

But supporters of the move said this would ensure that Russian citizens could lodge claims against their government at the European Court of Human Rights, a body of the council.
但此举的支持者表示，这将确保俄罗斯公民可以向欧洲人权法院(European Court of Human Rights)提出针对俄罗斯政府的诉讼。欧洲人权法院是人权理事会的一个机构。

In an effort to revive his stumbling campaign he declared that Britain must leave the EU on October 31st, “do or die”.
为了重振他步履蹒跚的竞选，他宣布英国必须在10月31日脱离欧盟，“要么做，要么死”。

That went down well with Tory party members.
这在保守党成员中很受欢迎。

Hong Kong’s Supreme Court overturned the conviction of the territory’s former chief executive, Donald Tsang, for misconduct.
香港最高法院推翻了对香港前行政长官曾荫权的不当行为的定罪。

The Australian Broadcasting Corporation said it would petition the courts to void a warrant that authorised the Australian police to raid its offices and seize documents related to a report it published in 2017 about abuses by Australian special forces in Afghanistan.
澳大利亚广播公司(Australian Broadcasting Corporation)表示，它将请求法庭撤销授权澳大利亚警方突袭其办公室并没收相关文件的授权令。该公司于2017年发布了一份有关澳大利亚特种部队在阿富汗滥用职权的报告。

This came after he ordered and then called off air strikes on military installations in the country in response to Iran’s downing of an American spy drone.
此前，他下令并取消了对伊朗军事设施的空袭，以回应伊朗击落一架美国无人侦察机。

The chief of Ethiopia’s army and the president of the Amhara region were killed along with several other people in two incidents in what the government called an attempted coup.
埃塞俄比亚陆军参谋长和阿姆哈拉地区的总统以及其他几人在两起事件中丧生，政府称这是一起未遂政变。

The government blamed the head of security in Amhara for the attacks.
政府将袭击事件归咎于安哈拉的安全部门负责人。

He was subsequently killed by the army.
他后来被军队击毙。

Republicans in Oregon’s state Senate refused to show up for work, thus denying a quorum for a vote on a bill that would introduce a carbon cap-and trade system.
俄勒冈州参议院的共和党人拒绝上班，因此否决了对一项引入碳排放限额和交易体系的法案进行投票的法定人数。

The Democratic governor asked state troopers to find the absconders.
民主党州长要求州警找到潜逃者。

A photograph of a father from Guatemala and his 23-monthold daughter who both drowned trying to cross the Rio Grande intensified America’s debate on illegal immigration.
一张来自危地马拉的父亲和他23个月大的女儿在试图穿越格兰德河时双双溺水身亡的照片，加剧了美国对非法移民的争论。

Reports also emerged of 300 children being held in squalid conditions at a border station.
还有报道称，300名儿童被关押在一个边境站，条件恶劣。

The House of Representatives and the Senate passed competing packages on aid for the border to cope with the surge of migrants.
众议院和参议院通过了相互竞争的一揽子边境援助计划，以应对移民的激增。

Authorities in Spain arrested a Brazilian sergeant who flew in on a presidential plane carrying 39kg of cocaine.
西班牙当局逮捕了一名巴西中士，他乘坐总统专机携带39公斤可卡因进入西班牙。

The aircraft was on its way to the G20 summit in Japan.
这架飞机当时正飞往日本参加G20峰会。

Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, who was travelling on another aircraft, normally extols the armed forces.
乘坐另一架飞机的巴西总统Jair Bolsonaro一般会赞扬军队。

In this case he demanded “severe punishment” for the smuggler.
在这种情况下，他要求对走私犯“严惩”。