Virgin Galactic said that it was planning an initial public offering. The firm, which hopes to take its first paying passengers into space early next year, could be valued at $1.5bn. Negotiations over a $1bn investment from Saudi Arabia’s sovereign-wealth fund were ended last year after the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, a journalist, by Saudi operatives in Istanbul.

Virgin Galactic is a spaceflight company within the Virgin Group. It is developing commercial spacecraft and aims to provide suborbital spaceflights to space tourists and suborbital launches for space science missions. Virgin Galactic plans to provide orbital human spaceflights as well. SpaceShipTwo, Virgin Galactic's suborbital spacecraft, is air launched from beneath a carrier airplane known as White Knight Two.

Deutsche Bank revealed details of a long-awaited €7.4bn ($8.3bn) restructuring plan. Its investment-banking division will bear the brunt. The troubled lender will close its global equity-trading unit and cut 18,000 people from its 91,500 workforce. It will also create a “bad bank” to house unwanted assets. Christian Sewing, Deutsche Bank’s chief executive, hopes the move will cut costs by €6bn a year. Analysts responded to the restructuring by saying itwas long overdue.

Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan sacked Murat Cetinkaya, the governor of the country’s central bank, and suggested that the institution needs an overhaul. Mr Cetinkayawas apparently ousted for refusing the president’s request to lower interest rates. Mr Erdogan seeminglywants greater control of monetary policy, a stance that has previously contributed to runs on the Turkish lira.

Can hack it
Britain’s Information Commissioner’s Office, a data-privacy regulator, said it would fine British Airways (ba) £183m ($230m) over a data breach last summer. In June 2018 criminals hacked into ba’s website and stole personal data, including the names, addresses and credit-card details of around 500,000 customers. It was the first fine Britain handed out under the eu’s new General Data Protection Regulation, which greatly increased the size of potential penalties. The second came the next day, when Marriott, a hotel group, was told it would be fined £99m for a data breach discovered last year. Both ba and Marriott said they would contest their penalties.

America began an investigation into France’s planned digital-services tax. The Trump administration says the 3% levy on the French revenues of big internet firms unfairly targets American companies like Google and Amazon. Its probe could result in America imposing tariffs or other trade restrictions. Several European countries are mulling digital taxes, though all say they would prefer a global deal— which the oecd, a club of rich countries, is trying to broker.

Sentence:
America began an investigation into France’s planned digital-services tax.
美国开始调查法国计划征收的数字服务税。

The Trump administration says the 3% levy on the French revenues of big internet firms unfairly targets American companies like Google and Amazon.
特朗普政府表示，对法国大型互联网公司征收3%的税收不公平地针对谷歌和亚马逊等美国公司。

Its probe could result in America imposing tariffs or other trade restrictions.
它的调查可能导致美国征收关税或其他贸易限制。

Several European countries are mulling digital taxes, though all say they would prefer a global deal— which the OECD, a club of rich countries, is trying to broker.
几个欧洲国家正在考虑征收数字税，尽管他们都表示更愿意达成一项全球性协议——由富裕国家组成的经合组织正试图从中斡旋。