Grant cuts blamed for driving down sales of new plug-in cars

Sales of new plug-in cars in Britain slumped in the first half of the year following cuts to government incentives, a trend the industry said was of “grave concern” for the UK’s attempts to meet its climate change targets.  

Confusion among motorists over emissions rules and a lack of confidence weighed on new car sales, which fell 3.4 percent to 1.27m between January and June compared with the same period last year, according to figures from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders(SMMT).

But sales of plug-in hybrid vehicles, which use a battery and a traditional engine and have much lower CO2 output than traditional hybrid cars, fell by a third to 14,923 in the six months. June sales dropped 50 percent.

While sales of battery electric vehicles, which run only on electric power, rose by 60 percent from a low base to 11,975 in the six months, the total number of cars that plug in to recharge fell by 6 percent to 26,898 in the period.

Last year ministers cut payouts for cars that emit less than 50g of CO2 per mile from £4,500 to £3,500, and changed the rules to exclude any plug-in cars that cannot drive more than 70 miles on electric-only power.

“Manufacturers have invested billions to bring these vehicles to market but their efforts are being undermined by confusing policies and the premature removal of purchase incentives,” said SMMT chief executive Mike Hawes.

The government, which seldom comments on monthly SMMT figures, defended its move amid the falling sales.

A Department for Transport spokesperson said: “The plug-in car grant has supported the purchase of 180,000 new cars with over £700m, including 100,000 plug-in hybrids, and the government is now focusing on the cleanest, zero-emission models. That focus has paid off—with registrations of battery electric vehicles up over 60 percent this year compared to the same period in2018.”

Sentence:
Grant cuts blamed for driving downsales of newplug-in cars.
补贴减少被认为是导致新插电式汽车销量下降的原因。

Sales of new plug-in cars in Britain slumped in the first half of the year following cuts to government incentives, a trend the industry said was of “grave concern” for the UK’s attempts to meet its climate change targets.
今年上半年，英国政府削减了对插电式混合动力汽车的激励措施，导致插电式混合动力汽车的销量大幅下滑。业内人士表示，这一趋势对英国实现气候变化目标的努力“严重关切”。

Last year ministers cut payouts for cars that emit less than 50g of CO2 per mile from £4,500 to £3,500, and changed the rules to exclude any plug-in cars that cannot drive more than 70 miles on electric-only power.
去年，部长们将每英里二氧化碳排放量低于50克的汽车的补贴从4500英镑削减到3500英镑，并修改了规则，将仅靠电力不能行驶超过70英里的插电式汽车排除在外。

The government, which seldom comments on monthly SMMT figures, defended its move amid the falling sales.
政府很少对SMMT月度数据发表评论，但在销量下滑之际为自己的举措进行了辩护。

That focus has paid off—with registrations of battery electric vehicles up over 60 percent this year compared to the same period in2018.
这种关注取得了成效，今年纯电动汽车的注册量比2018年同期增长了60%以上。