Amazon’s Deal Run Faces Hurdle

Government spotlight is threat as concern about clout of tech companies intensifies

Amazon.com Inc. has been on a buying spree in recent years, but the U.S. government’s increased scrutiny of large tech companies threatens to slow that pace.

The company has struck more than $20 billion worth of acquisitions and investments since the start of 2017, more than its deal volume in all of the previous 23 years in the online retailer’s history, according to data provider Dealogic. The spree’s biggest was Amazon’s $13.7 billion purchase of Whole Foods Inc. in 2017.

Amazon’s deal-making style is to act quickly, quietly and frequently without investment bankers, according to people familiar with the company’s thinking. But the closer attention from Washington will likely result in Amazon throttling down on acquisitions, especially larger deals.

The pressure stems from increased calls for government to rein in tech giants. Congress plans a bipartisan examination of antitrust law and whether tech companies like Amazon are growing too powerful to the detriment of smaller rivals and customers. Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D., Mass.), a presidential candidate, proposes breaking up Amazon and unwinding the Whole Foods acquisition, while President Trump has criticized Amazon, suggesting the company should pay more in taxes.

The Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission also plan to examine tech giants for possible antitrust probes. The FTC, which cleared the Whole Foods acquisition, will have oversight of Amazon. The threat of increased government regulation has pressured the stocks of big tech companies, although Amazon’s share price—which closed Wednesday at $1,939—is near its 2019 high.

An Amazon spokeswoman, when asked about the increased government attention, referred to recent comments made by Jeff Wilke, chief of the company’s world-wide consumer division. “We believe the most substantial entities in the economy deserve scrutiny. Our job is to build the kind of company that passes that scrutiny with flying colors,” he said last month at a company conference.

Amazon collects about 38% of all U.S. retail dollars spent online, according to eMarketer, which recently revised its estimate down from about half. But Chief Executive Jeff Bezos emphasized in his shareholder letter in April that the company remains a small player in global retail.

At the same time, he has signaled he won’t hold back on seizing opportunities to grow. At the company conference in June, he said Amazon would make bigger bets on new ventures— such as satellite internet— that “move the needle for us.”

Amazon has leaned on acquisitions to grow beyond its core online retail site. It is now a leader in cloud-computing services, the owner of a major grocery chain, a big consumer electronics maker, the country’s third-largest digital advertising company, a Hollywood studio and a threat in health care.

The company has also used deal-making to expand in foreign markets that are tough to crack. In 2017, it bought Middle Eastern online retailer Souq for around $600 million. Amazon was in discussions last year for a controlling stake in Flipkart for at least $10 billion, according to people familiar with the matter, but lost out when Walmart Inc. bought a 77% stake in India’s largest online retailer for $16 billion.

Five of Amazon’s 10 largest deals or attempted deals have come since 2017, based on Dealogic, whose data includes Amazon’s acquisitions and investments above $50 million, and on Wall Street Journal reporting. Amazon says 2017 was an outlier with Whole Foods accounting for its only multibillion- dollar deal.

Amazon sometimes watches potential targets for years before making an approach, and when it does, it moves quickly to seal a deal, said some of the people familiar with the matter.

When a company buys another publicly traded firm, it is often the culmination of talks that lasted six months to a year. Amazon, by contrast, held its first exploratory phone call with Whole Foods on April 24, 2017, and announced a deal on June 16, less than two months later. Online pharmacy PillPack had been negotiating a deal with Walmart for months when Amazon swooped in and signed a $753 million deal within weeks of initial talks, people familiar with the deal said.

Sentence:
Amazon.com Inc. has been on a buying spree in recent years, but the U.S. government’s increased scrutiny of large tech companies threatens to slow that pace.
亚马逊公司(Amazon.com Inc.)近年来一直在大举收购，但美国政府对大型科技公司越来越严格的审查可能会减缓这一步伐。

Our job is to build the kind of company that passes that scrutiny with flying colors.
我们的工作是建立一种能够顺利通过审查的公司。

At the same time, he has signaled he won’t hold back on seizing opportunities to grow.
与此同时，他也表示，他不会停止抓住增长机会。

At the company conference in June, he said Amazon would make bigger bets on new ventures— such as satellite internet— that “move the needle for us.”
在今年6月的公司会议上，他表示，亚马逊将在卫星互联网等新业务上押下更大的赌注，这些业务“将为我们改变局面”。

The company has also used deal-making to expand in foreign markets that are tough to crack.
该公司还利用并购交易在难以打入的海外市场扩张。

Amazon says 2017 was an outlier with Whole Foods accounting for its only multibillion- dollar deal.
亚马逊表示，2017年是一个例外，因为全食超市是其唯一一笔价值数十亿美元的交易。