Trump under fire over July 4 parade

President accused of trying to create campaign rally at public expense

Donald Trump came under fire for politicising the US Independence Day celebrations, after ordering a large military parade through the nation’s capital city and planning a speech of his own at the Lincoln Memorial.

The US president has toyed with the idea of a grand show of arms since observing the 2017 Bastille Day celebration in Paris but has met with complaints about the cost of such an event and its impact on the military.

Mr Trump’s demand to include tanks and military jets in the July 4 festivities this year breaks with tradition in Washington, where hundreds of thousands of people typically gather for a night of patriotic songs and fireworks broadcast on national television.

The president yesterday hyped the event, declaring on Twitter: “People are coming from far and wide to join us today and tonight for what is turning out to be one of the biggest celebrations in the history of our Country.”

He promised the celebration would culminate in “large-scale flyovers of the most modern and advanced aircraft anywhere in the World. Perhaps even Air Force One will do a low&loud sprint over the crowd”.

At midday, the celebrations began with marching bands, drill teams, floats and military units starting a one-mile parade down Washington’s Constitution Avenue,while live bands played outside the Capitol Building.The evening schedule included the multiple flyovers accompanied by a speech by Mr Trump, and a fireworks finale.

Democrats in the House of Representatives, including majority leader Steny Hoyer, wrote to Mr Trump to complain that his plans would create “the appearance of a televised, partisan campaign rally on the Mall at public expense”, breaking from the convention of “non partisan and apolitical” celebrations on July 4.They said the parade would incur “substantial unplanned costs”.

The festivities are being partly funded by $2.5m diverted from the National Park Service, according to The Washington Post.Tom Udall, a Democratic senator from New Mexico, said the reported figure was “beyond the pale”.

“The American people pay these entrance fees to make improvements at our national parks—not to boost President Trump’s campaign,” he said. “The National Mall is not the place to hold a de facto political rally.”

Eliot Engel, the Democratic chair of the House foreign affairs committee, demanded “full accounting of this publicly funded event”, accusing Mr Trump of running a political campaign with taxpayers’ money.

Although the cost has not been officially released, Mr Trump tweeted that the price of the “great salute to America” would be “very little compared to what it is worth”. He added: “We own the planes,we have the pilots, the airport is right next door (Andrews), all we need is fuel.

“We own the tanks and all. Fireworks are donated by two of the greats. Nice!”

On Wednesday, the Pentagon confirmed that Mark Esper, acting defence secretary, and General Joseph Dunford, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, would both attend.

Local officials in Washington have warned that any attempt by Mr Trump to make a speech at the Mall would require extra security and force the closure of nearby metro stations.

Sentence:
He promised the celebration would culminate in “large-scale flyovers of the most modern and advanced aircraft anywhere in the World.
他承诺，庆祝活动将以“世界上任何地方最现代化、最先进的飞机的大规模飞越”达到高潮。

Perhaps even Air Force One will do a low&loud sprint over the crowd”.
也许就连空军一号也会在人群中做一个低空而响亮的冲刺。”

Local officials in Washington have warned that any attempt by Mr Trump to make a speech at the Mall would require extra security and force the closure of nearby metro stations.
华盛顿当地官员警告称，特朗普在林肯纪念堂前发表演讲的任何企图，都将需要额外的安全措施，并迫使附近的地铁站关闭。