Rocket man
America’s stock markets soared after Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, hinted that the central bank is looking to cut interest rates this month. Investors piled into shares after Mr Powell cited concerns that the trade war with China and a global slowdown could hurt growth in America. The S&P 500 index of shares touched 3,000 for the first time.

Mr Powell also warned that plans by Facebook to build a digital currency called Libra raise “serious concerns”. The central banker told America’s House of Representatives that Facebook should address fears about privacy, money laundering, consumer protection and financial stability before moving forward with the project. Several executives at the social network are scheduled to be questioned by Congress later this month.

A profit warning from BASF, the world’s largest maker of chemicals, weighed heavily on the German stockmarket. The company slashed its forecast for full-year earnings by 30%. In response its share price slid by 5%. The company blamed a global economic slowdown, caused by the trade war between America and China, as well as a “particularly strong” downturn in car manufacturing, for the downgrade.

A Brazilian judge ordered Vale, a mining giant, to pay full compensation for damage caused when one of its dams in the north of the country broke in January, killing at least 248 people. Vale must stump up for all the effects of the disaster, including the cost of the economic hit to the region. The judge said it was still not possible to calculate a final figure for the total amount Vale will have to pay.

Britain’s ambassador to America, Sir Kim Darroch, resigned after President Donald Trump said he would “no longer deal with him”. The spat came after Sir Kim’s confidential cables to London were leaked to a newspaper. They described the White House as “dysfunctional”, “clumsy” and “inept”, and its occupant as “radiat[ing] insecurity”. The British government backed its man, but Boris Johnson, the probable next prime minister, conspicuously did not. Sir Kim took the hint.

Mr Trump violated the American constitution by blocking those whose views he disliked from his Twitter account, a federal appeals court ruled. It said the First Amendment forbids a public official to operate in such a way on a platform used to conduct government business. The case was brought by the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University on behalf of seven blocked Twitter users.

Japan accused South Korea of failing to enforce international sanctions against North Korea fully. The complaint was the latest barb in an escalating row between the two countries, after Japan imposed restrictions on exports to South Korea in protest at judgments against Japanese firms in South Korean courts.

Kyriakos Mitsotakis, leader of Greece’s centre-right New Democracy party, won an overall majority at a general election, thanks to a 50-seat top-up that is given to the party that wins the most seats. He has promised tax cuts and a more business-friendly environment. Greece still grapples with serious economic problems that the outgoing left-wing Syriza government, led by Alexis Tsipras, has failed to resolve.

A tape surfaced that purports to be of a conversation between a former close aide to Matteo Salvini, the powerful deputy prime minister of Italy, and a number of Russians concerning ways of secretly using Russian money to fund Mr Salvini’s Northern League party. He denied ever receiving “a rouble, a euro, a dollar or a litre of vodka”.

Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, suffered what seemed to be a third public episode of uncontrollable shaking. She insists that her health is good.

Upon these stones
A Nigerian court ordered the seizure of $40m in jewellery from a former oil minister, Diezani Alison-Madueke. Muhammadu Buhari, who won a second term as Nigeria’s president earlier this year, campaigned on a promise to reduce corruption.

The generals running Sudan since the fall in April of its dictator, Omar al-Bashir, reached a power-sharing accord with the pro-democracy movement that has been demanding an end to military rule. The deal makes provision for the generals to lead a new Supreme Council, which will be the highest decision-making body, for 21months. Civilians will take over for a further 18 months before elections.

A deal signed in 2015 to prevent Iran from building a nuclear bomb came closer to collapse after its three European signatories (Britain, France and Germany) said they were concerned that Iran was “not meeting several of its commitments”. The accord offered Iran relief from some economic sanctions in exchange for limits on its nuclear programme. But President Trump withdrew America from the deal last year and reimposed sanctions. Iran has since breached caps on uranium enrichment. And tensions with the West rose after Britain seized a tanker carrying Iranian oil.

Negotiators for Taliban insurgents met representatives of the Afghan government to discuss a peace agreement for the first time, albeit unofficially. The talks were disguised as part of a bigger meeting of Afghan groups. America has held seven rounds of negotiations with the Taliban about a possible withdrawal from Afghanistan, but also wants the government and the insurgents to speak directly.

At the end of the day
Mexico’s finance minister, Carlos Urzúa, resigned after claiming that the administration of President Andrés Manuel López Obrador had made his job impossible and had forced his ministry to hire unqualified people. Mr Urzúa, a social democrat, was a voice of prudence in the cabinet of the populist leftist president. The country’s currency, the peso, tumbled after the announcement (though it later recovered).

The lower house of Brazil’s congress approved a reform of the country’s unsustainably generous pension system by a vote of 379 to 131. The measure would save taxpayers 900bn reais ($240bn) over ten years.

João Gilberto, the man who sang “The Girl from Ipanema”, died aged 88 in Rio de Janeiro. Mr Gilberto was a star of bossa nova, a musical style that fuses jazz and samba.

Sentence:
Mr Trump violated the American constitution by blocking those whose views he disliked from his Twitter account, a federal appeals court ruled.
一家联邦上诉法院裁定，特朗普在其Twitter账户上屏蔽了那些他不喜欢的人的观点，违反了美国宪法。

It said the First Amendment forbids a public official to operate in such a way on a platform used to conduct government business.
它说，宪法第一修正案禁止公职人员在用于处理政府事务的平台上以这种方式行事。

The case was brought by the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University on behalf of seven blocked Twitter users.
这起案件是由哥伦比亚大学奈特第一修正案研究所代表7名被屏蔽的Twitter用户提起的。

Kyriakos Mitsotakis, leader of Greece’s centre-right New Democracy party, won an overall majority at a general election, thanks to a 50-seat top-up that is given to the party that wins the most seats.
希腊中右翼的新民主党(New Democracy party)领袖基里亚科斯•米佐塔基斯(Kyriakos Mitsotakis)在大选中赢得了绝对多数，这要归功于赢得最多席位的政党获得了50个席位的额外席位。

He has promised tax cuts and a more business-friendly environment.
他已经承诺减税和更友好的商业环境。

Greece still grapples with serious economic problems that the outgoing left-wing Syriza government, led by Alexis Tsipras, has failed to resolve.
希腊仍在应对由亚历克西斯•齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)领导的即将离任的左翼联盟党(Syriza)政府未能解决的严重经济问题。

A tape surfaced that purports to be of a conversation between a former close aide to Matteo Salvini, the powerful deputy prime minister of Italy, and a number of Russians concerning ways of secretly using Russian money to fund Mr Salvini’s Northern League party.
一盘录音带浮出水面，据称是意大利大权在握的副总理马泰奥•萨尔维尼(Matteo Salvini)的前亲密助手与一些俄罗斯人之间的对话，内容涉及如何秘密利用俄罗斯资金为萨尔维尼的北方联盟(Northern League)提供资金。

He denied ever receiving “a rouble, a euro, a dollar or a litre of vodka”.
他否认收到过“一卢布、一欧元、一美元或一升伏特加”。

Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, suffered what seemed to be a third public episode of uncontrollable shaking.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)似乎遭遇了在公开场合第三次无法控制的身体抖动。

She insists that her health is good.
她坚持说她的健康状况很好。