Ursula von der Leyen, until recently Germany’s defence minister, was approved by the European Parliament as the next president of the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm. She secured 383 votes, nine more than the required absolute majority, suggesting that she will take office with her authority already brittle. Her first, and very tricky, task is to assign jobs to the commissioners of each country.

Sterling fell sharply against the dollar and other currencies. Markets are waking up to the likely victory of Boris Johnson in the race to become Britain’s new prime minister. Mr Johnson maintains a hardline position that he is prepared to leave the eu without a deal on October 31st; Britain’s fiscal watchdog thinks a nodeal Brexit would plunge the country into recession.

Four months into its search for a new CEO following the abrupt departure of Timothy Sloan, Wells Fargo reported a higherthan- expected quarterly net profit of $6.2bn. The bank is struggling to find a new boss as it continues to deal with the regulatory fallout from a fakeaccounts scandal. Other American banks also released second- quarter earnings. Profit came in at $9.7bn for JPMorgan Chase, $7.3bn for Bank of America and $2.4bn for Goldman Sachs, all above forecasts.

China’s GDP grew by 6.2% in the second quarter, year on year, the slowest pace in three decades. As the trade war with America hits exports, China’s economy is now fuelled by domestic demand.

South Korea’s central bank sliced a quarter of a percentage point off its main interest rate, to 1.5%. It was the first cut in three years and comes amid a slump in the country’s exports.

The new governor of Turkey’s central bank suggested that there was now “room to manoeuvre” on cutting interest rates, given a fall in inflation to 15.7%. Murat Uysal was appointed to the job when his predecessor was ousted in a row over monetary policy with the government. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the country’s president, said recently that he expects a “serious” reduction in the 24% benchmark rate.

Anheuser-Busch InBev scrapped a sale of shares in its Asian business, blaming market conditions. The brewer had hoped to raise $9.8bn on the Hong Kong stock exchange, which would have made it the world’s biggest ipo this year, ahead of Uber.

France’s environment minister, François de Rugy, resigned. The French press had lashed out at him for spending large amounts of taxpayers’ money on lavish dinners, including fine wine and lobsters, which he says he does not like (“champagne gives me a headache”). He denies any wrongdoing.

There were 1,187 drug-related deaths in Scotland last year according to official figures. That is a rate of just over 218 people per million, higher than in the United States, which is in the grip of an opioid epidemic. Scotland’s drug problem has escalated quickly; over the past five years the number of drug-related deaths has more than doubled.

Turkey took delivery of the first of its s-400 anti-aircraft missiles from Russia. The purchase has caused a huge row with NATO. America has ended Turkey’s role in making f-35 fighter planes, for fear that its secrets will be stolen by Turkey’s Russian partners.

The soldiers running Sudan signed a power-sharing deal with the opposition, whose protests led to the fall of President Omar al-Bashir, a tyrant, in April. The accord lacks many details, but the two sides have agreed on a path to elections after three years, and the composition of a sovereign council of civilians and military types.

The World Health Organisation formally declared the Ebola epidemic in the Democratic Republic of Congo to be a global health emergency. More than 1,670 people have died in the latest outbreak.

Tentacles of a scandal
Police arrested Alejandro Toledo, a former president of Peru, in California. Peru has requested his extradition to face charges that during his presidency from 2001 to 2006 he took $20m in bribes from Odebrecht, a Brazilian construction company. He denies wrongdoing.

A hit on “The Squad”
Donald Trump told four non-white Democratic congresswomen, two of them Muslim, to “go back” to where they came from and fix their “own” corrupt governments before criticising America. Three of the women were born in the United States; the other is an American citizen. A resolution to impeach Mr Trump over his words attracted 95 votes, losing heavily. It was the first time such a motion against Mr Trump had come to a vote. A Republican senator called the women “a bunch of communists”.

Alex Acosta resigned as America’s labour secretary. As a prosecutor in 2008, Mr Acosta had struck a plea deal with Jeffrey Epstein, a financier accused of having sex with under-age girls.

Sentence:
She secured 383 votes, nine more than the required absolute majority, suggesting that she will take office with her authority already brittle.
她获得了383票，比所需的绝对多数票多出9票，这表明她将在其权力本已脆弱的情况下就职。

Her first, and very tricky, task is to assign jobs to the commissioners of each country.
她的第一个任务，也是非常棘手的，是把工作分配给每个国家的委员。

Sterling fell sharply against the dollar and other currencies.
英镑兑美元和其他货币大幅下跌。

The new governor of Turkey’s central bank suggested that there was now “room to manoeuvre” on cutting interest rates, given a fall in inflation to 15.7%.
土耳其央行新任行长暗示，鉴于通胀率已降至15.7%，现在在降息问题上有“回旋余地”。