Britain seizes tanker suspected of smuggling Iranian oil to Syria

British commandos seized a supertanker suspected to be smuggling Iranian oil to Syria in a night-time raid that has triggered a diplomatic row between Tehran and London.

Hours after the 2 am operation off Gibraltar, Iran said it would not accept the “illegal” seizure of the tanker and summoned the British ambassador in Tehranto express its objections.

Royal Marines boarded the Grace 1 from a naval helicopter and patrol boats in a joint operation with Gibraltar police.

The government in the British overseas territory said that it had “reasonable grounds” to believe that the Panamanian-flagged vessel, with a capacity of 2m barrels, was violating EU sanctions by shipping crude to the Banyas refinery in Syria.

The incident threatens to raise tensions between Tehran and the west at a critical time as Britain, France and Germany fight to save the 2015 nuclear deal that Iran signed with world powers.

Iran has been under intense pressure since last year when Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew the US from the accord and imposed crippling sanctions on the Islamic republic. The punitive measures have severely impeded Tehran’s ability to export oil.

The UK, France and Germany do not back Washington’s actions. They continue to support the nuclear deal and are not opposed to Iran selling its crude.

But the UK seized the Grace 1 because of European sanctions on Syria, where President Bashar al-Assad has waged a brutal eight-year war to put down a rebellion. Iran is one of the Assad regime’s main foreign backers and has long been known to ship oil to Syria.

The UK’s Foreign Office said that Britain’s ambassador to Tehran “reiterated that it was irrelevant whose vessel or cargo this was—this was about enforcing sanctions on Syria, not on Iran”.

But Iran is likely to view the seizure of the Grace 1 as the UK doing the Trump administration’s bidding, which might complicate diplomatic efforts to save the nuclear deal.

Iran threatened to increase its nuclear activity if Britain, France and Germany did not take concrete steps to provide economic relief to the republic in 60 days. That deadline expires on Sunday.

EU and US sanctions on Syria have been in force since 2011 after Mr Assad crackdown on demonstrators, which escalated into a civil war. The sanctions span arms sales, transactions with Syria’s central bank and asset freezes on businesspeople and those accused of developing chemical weapons.

A person familiar with the naval operation said the decision to take control of the vessel was based entirely on its suspected final destination of the Banyas refinery in Syria, which is under EU sanctions. “It would have been the same if the cargo was coming from the UK North Sea,” the person said. Additional reporting Chloe Cornish in Beirut

Sentence:
Royal Marines boarded the Grace 1 froma naval helicopter and patrol boats in a joint operation with Gibraltar police.
在与直布罗陀警方的联合行动中，皇家海军陆战队登上了格雷斯1号海军直升机和巡逻艇。