Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan, visited the White House. Donald Trump boasted that he could wipe out Afghanistan, an American ally, and, to India’s horror, offered to mediate in the long-standing dispute over Kashmir. 

A resolution opposing an attempt to boycott Israel picked up huge Democratic support and passed the House of Representatives by 398 to 17. That marked a stinging defeat for the movement to boycott Israel, advanced by newly elected progressives.

Warning shots
South Korea accused Russian aircraft of violating its airspace during a joint military exercise with China. The alleged incursion happened near disputed islands in the Sea of Japan, which are claimed by both Japan and South Korea. Russia denied the incursion.

Japan’s ruling Liberal Democrats won a majority of seats in the upper house of parliament at an election, but failed to secure the supermajority required to change the country’s pacifist constitution, a long-held goal of Shinzo Abe, the prime minister.

Playing with fire
A Venezuelan fighter jet “aggressively shadowed” an American navy reconnaissance plane over the Caribbean Sea, according to Southern Command, which runs American military operations in Latin America. Venezuela claimed the navy plane had strayed into its airspace.

The power went off again in 16 of Venezuela’s 23 states. In the capital, Caracas, the blackout caused huge traffic jams. The government blamed an “electromagnetic attack”.

Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, chose Marcelo Xavier da Silva, a federal police officer, to lead the government’s Indian affairs department, Funai. Indigenous groups criticised the appointment. As Funai’s ombudsman in 2017 Mr da Silva had asked the police to take “persecutory measures” against activists. Separately, Mr Bolsonaro said he would review data on the deforestation of the Amazon before their release, because the figures could hurt Brazil’s image.

Sentence:
A resolution opposing an attempt to boycott Israel picked up huge Democratic support and passed the House of Representatives by 398 to 17.
一项反对抵制以色列的决议获得了民主党的大力支持，并在众议院以398票对17票获得通过。

That marked a stinging defeat for the movement to boycott Israel, advanced by newly elected progressives.
这标志着由新当选的进步人士发起的抵制以色列运动的惨败。

Donald Trump boasted that he could wipe out Afghanistan, an American ally, and, to India’s horror, offered to mediate in the long-standing dispute over Kashmir.
唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)吹嘘说，他可以消灭美国的盟友阿富汗。令印度感到恐惧的是，他还提出要在克什米尔长期争端中进行调解。