President Delivers Elaborate Celebration

In Washington, thousands defied the rain on Thursday to attend President Trump’s ‘Salute to America’ event at the Lincoln Memorial.

WASHINGTON—President Trump delivered his elaborate Fourth of July celebration, defying critics and honoring the military.

Rain fell throughout a hot, muggy afternoon in the nation’s capital, but thousands showed up for the evening address, part of Mr. Trump’s “Salute to America” that featured flyovers of booming jet fighters, military bands, tanks, armored vehicles and fireworks. Hundreds of troops were on hand as well as invited guests.

“Together, we are part of one of the greatest stories ever told—the story of America,” Mr. Trump said from the Lincoln Memorial. “Today, just as it did 243 years ago, the future of American Freedom rests on the shoulders of men and women willing to defend it.”

In a 45-minute address, Mr. Trump stuck to a script designed to celebrate nationhood and the military, but avoided the political messaging many critics had warned he might include. Instead, the president traced the nation’s history from the Founding Fathers to the moon landing. He reveled in a legacy of rock ’n’ roll, Western movies, the Super Bowl, the assembly line and the “mighty American automobile.” He named key figures from Harriet Tubman to Jackie Robinson, Douglas MacArthur and John Glenn.

The president honored firefighters and law enforcement, including the border patrol, and made an appeal for youths to join the military.

It was among the most elaborate Independence Day events ever staged on the National Mall, and Mr. Trump had a personal hand in the planning, predicting in a tweet it would be “one of the biggest celebrations in the history of our Country.”

The event sought to fulfill a long-held goal of Mr. Trump to showcase the nation’s military with the similar gusto of a Paris Bastille Day parade he watched in 2017.

“As long as we stay true to our cause, as long as we remember our great history, and as long as we never stop fighting for a better future, then there will be nothing that America cannot do,” Mr. Trump said.

Protesters, including activists with an 18-foot “Baby Trump” balloon, also took to the Mall with anti-Trump and antiwar messages. The event has been the target of criticism from Democrats for its cost— estimated in the millions of dollars but not confirmed by the administration—and the use of military hardware for a traditionally nonpartisan celebration. The Pentagon has said it wouldn’t have cost estimates until next week at the earliest.

The event provided a platform for Mr. Trump, who announced his re-election campaign last month, to reach millions of potential viewers at a time when a number of polls show his approval rating at around 40%. An earlier effort by the president to stage a military parade fizzled over concerns about cost and logistics.

The celebration included a parade earlier in the day, and planned fireworks that were donated by two private companies. Also featured were two Bradley Fighting Vehicles and two 60-ton Abrams tanks, displayed near the memorial.

The president’s pageant marks a sharp break from tradition. Previous presidents’ activities included celebrations on the White House’s South Lawn, as well as holding naturalization ceremonies and visiting festivities around the U.S.

The reaction to Mr. Trump’s extravaganza extended to the Rolling Stones concert on Wednesday, a night before the event, at the stadium where the Washington Redskins play. Mick Jagger joked that the holiday had been about fireworks and “now we’ve got tanks on the lawn as well—and a flyby and some inspirational speeches,” which led to some audience cheers and boos.

A while later, Keith Richards wished the crowd a happy Fourth—“tanks and all.”

Sentence:
Hundreds of troops were on hand as well as invited guests.
数百名军人和受邀的客人都在现场。

In a 45-minute address, Mr. Trump stuck to a script designed to celebrate nationhood and the military, but avoided the political messaging many critics had warned he might include.
在45分钟的演讲中，特朗普坚持了一份旨在庆祝国家地位和军队的剧本，但避免了许多批评人士警告他可能包含的政治信息。

Instead, the president traced the nation’s history from the Founding Fathers to the moon landing.
相反，总统追溯了美国从开国元勋到登月的历史。

He reveled in a legacy of rock ’n’ roll, Western movies, the Super Bowl, the assembly line and the “mighty American automobile.”
他醉心于摇滚乐、西部电影、超级碗橄榄球赛、流水线和“强大的美国汽车”。

The Pentagon has said it wouldn’t have cost estimates until next week at the earliest.
五角大楼表示最早要到下周才会有成本估算。

An earlier effort by the president to stage a military parade fizzled over concerns about cost and logistics.
总统早些时候曾试图举行阅兵式，但由于担心成本和后勤问题而以失败告终。

The celebration included a parade earlier in the day, and planned fireworks that were donated by two private companies.
庆祝活动包括当天早些时候的游行，并计划由两家私营公司捐赠烟花。

Also featured were two Bradley Fighting Vehicles and two 60-ton Abrams tanks, displayed near the memorial.
在纪念碑附近展出的还有两辆布拉德利战车和两辆60吨重的艾布拉姆斯坦克。

The president’s pageant marks a sharp break from tradition. Previous presidents’ activities included celebrations on the White House’s South Lawn, as well as holding naturalization ceremonies and visiting festivities around the U.S.
总统的庆祝盛会标志着传统的突破。前总统的活动包括在白宫的南草坪上举行庆祝活动,以及在美国各地举行入礼仪式和参观庆祝活动。

Mick Jagger joked that the holiday had been about fireworks and “now we’ve got tanks on the lawn as well—and a flyby and some inspirational speeches,” which led to some audience cheers and boos.
米克·贾格尔(Mick Jagger)开玩笑说，这个节日是关于烟火的，“现在草坪上也有坦克了——还有一次飞车表演和一些鼓舞人心的演讲，”这引起了一些观众的欢呼和嘘声。