Mr Johnson started naming his new ministers, aiming to move away from the pale, male and stale image of previous cabinets. Sajid Javid was appointed chancellor of the exchequer, Dominic Raab took charge at the Foreign Office and Priti Patel became home secretary. There were two other themes in his picks: the new cabinet is packed with pro- Brexiteers and those who backed Mr Johnson in the leadership race.

Boris Johnson took over as Britain’s prime minister from Theresa May after winning the Conservative Party’s leadership contest. Mr Johnson was the favourite from the outset and won comfortably, taking 66% of the vote from the 160,000 party members on an 87% turnout. Some wonder how long he will last. Brexit has already claimed two British prime ministers. When Parliament scrutinises his Brexit proposals Mr Johnson is as likely to struggle as much as Mrs May did.

The response in Europe to Mr Johnson’s victory was muted. Ursula von der Leyen, the president-elect of the European Commission, politely noted that he “faces challenging times”. Others were more direct. Guy Verhofstadt, who leads the liberal bloc in the European Parliament, called him “irresponsible”.

In one of her first big decisions as she prepares to take over the presidency of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen decided to move Martin Selmayr, the eu’s most senior civil servant, to a new job running the eu’s operations in Austria. The demotion comes less than18 months after his controversial appointment amid claims of cronyism.

Swirling intrigue Kenya’s finance minister, Henry Rotich,was arrested on corruption charges. He denies wrongdoing. The case has raised fears of political instability in Kenya as Mr Rotich is an ally of the deputy president,William Ruto, who plans to run for president in 2022. Mr Ruto’s supporters claim the police and prosecutors are using corruption charges to undermine his chances of winning office.

The health minister of the DemocraticRepublic of Congo, Oly Ilunga, resigned amid a dispute over Ebola. Mr Ilunga had resisted the introduction of an experimental vaccine that experts believe could have helped contain the current outbreak, in which about 2,500 people have been infected.

Iran seized a British tanker passing through the Strait of Hormuz, an important chokepoint for international shipping. The capture of the tanker came two weeks after Britain seized an Iranian tanker allegedly bound for Syria.

The quiet man
Robert Mueller gave eagerly awaited testimony to America’s Congress at a public hearing. The man who investigated links between Donald Trump’s election campaign and Russian officials did not stray far from the findings of his report, published in April, but he rejected the president’s claim that it completely exonerated him.

The Senate confirmed Mark Esper as America’s new defence secretary, following the derailment of Patrick Shanahan’s nomination last month. Mr Esper received broad bipartisan support in the Senate, though a smattering of Democrats raised concerns about his former job as a lobbyist for a weapons company.

Sentence:
The response in Europe to Mr Johnson’s victory was muted.
欧洲对约翰逊的胜利反应平淡。

Mr Zelensky, a former comedian, called the snap poll after winning the presidency on an anti-corruption ticket in April.
泽伦斯基曾是一名喜剧演员，今年4月凭借反腐选票当选总统后，他发起了这项临时投票。

The man did not stray far from the findings of his report, published in April, but he rejected the president’s claim that it completely exonerated him.
这名男子并没有偏离他4月份发表的报告的结论太远，但他否认了总统声称的完全证明他无罪的说法。