US actors become victims of trade war as China film studios refuse to cast them

The trade war between the US and China is claiming an unexpected new victim: the growing cohort of US actors seeking fame and fortune in China’s fast-growing film industry.  

Actors and film industry staff say Chinese studios are imposing an informal ban on US nationals, fearing that a deterioration in relations could lead Beijing’s censors to place restrictions on US-related content.

“My agency in China ended our contract claiming the trade war with America amounts to force majeure,” said Matt William Knowles, who was cut from a $75m project last month. “I can only assume it looks bad for them to be working with an American.”

China’s film industry has expanded rapidly in the past decade to boast box office takings that rival North America’s. That has enabled Chinese productions to hire Hollywood A-listers such as Christian Bale and Matt Damon.

Mr Knowles is one of dozens of US actors who have moved to China to meet the rising demand for foreign performers, enabling him to take up a range of roles including a second world war hero, an oil company executive and even a mythological god.

Although US president Donald Trump and Chinese president Xi Jinping agreed to restart trade talks at the G20 meeting in Tokyo last weekend, any thaw in ties may come too late for the US actors frozen out by China’s biggest film studios and television companies.

“The vast majority of legitimate film companies are tiptoeing around [the hiring of US actors],” said one actor who has featured regularly in Chinese films and television dramas, but asked not to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter. “It is a nightmare,” a manager at a Shanghai-based talent company said, comparing the situation with a recently-lifted ban on South Korean entertainers working in China imposed during a diplomatic dispute in 2017.

Efforts by the Chinese film industry to distance itself from the US were evident at the Shanghai film festival last month, where none of the 15 films in the competition were US, compared with six last year. One US executive who was a producer on a movie featured at the festival said he was instructed to avoid the event’s red carpet at the last minute.

Studios have been keen to hire US talent to improve cinematography and special effects on their films, and such crew are able to remain working in China as they are less visible than actors, according to film industry staff.

Trade tensions have so far not affected the distribution of Hollywood films in China, with US movies breaking box office records in the country this year. But if the trade war deepens “we are worried about restrictions”, said one US film industry executive.

Sentence:
Any thaw in ties may come too late for the US actors frozen out by China’s biggest film studios and television companies.
对于被中国最大的电影制片厂和电视公司冻结的美国演员来说，任何关系的解冻都可能为时已晚。

My agency in China ended our contract claiming the trade war with America amounts to force majeure.
我在中国的代理终止了我们的合同，声称与美国的贸易战是不可抗力。

That has enabled Chinese productions to hire Hollywood A-listers such as Christian BaleandMattDamon.
这使得中国电影公司得以聘请克里斯蒂安•巴利和马特•达蒙等好莱坞一线明星。

No US films were up for awards at last month’s Shanghai film festival.
在上个月的上海电影节上，没有一部美国电影获得奖项。

“The vast majority of legitimate film companies are tiptoeing around [the hiring of US actors],” said one actor who has featured regularly in Chinese films and television dramas, but asked not to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter.
一位经常出现在中国电影和电视剧中的演员表示：“绝大多数合法电影公司都在小心翼翼地回避(聘用外行)。”但由于这件事的敏感性，他要求不透露姓名。

One US executive who was a producer on a movie featured at the festival said he was instructed to avoid the event’s red carpet at the last minute.
一位在电影节上担任电影制片人的美国高管表示，他在最后一刻被指示避开电影节的红地毯。

Studios have been keen to hire US talent to improve cinematography and special effects on their films, and such crew are able to remain working in China as they are less visible than actors, according to film industry staff.
电影业的工作人员表示，制片厂一直热衷于聘用我们的人才，以改进电影技术和电影的特技效果，而且这些工作人员能够继续在中国工作，因为他们没有演员那么显眼。