In a presentation to scientists, Elon Musk said that a startup he backs which is developing technology to integrate artificial intelligence with the brain plans to begin tests on humans by the end of next year. Neuralink is working on a system that will connect the human brain to machines by implanting hundreds of electrode “threads”, thinner than strands of hair, into the brain, using a surgical robot. The procedure is intended for patients with severe neurological disorders, but could eventually be used to boost the brain’s power.

News emerged that Facebook is to be fined $5bn in America for violating users’ privacy in the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Although this would be by far the biggest penalty levied on a technology company in the United States, one bipartisan group of senators described it as “egregiously inadequate”, and that $5bn was too small to “alter the incentives and behaviour of Facebook and its peers”. The Federal Trade Commission is awaiting approval for the settlement from the Justice Department.

Meanwhile, there was more push back from officials against Facebook’s plan to launch a global cryptocurrency, to be named Libra. Steven Mnuchin, America’s treasury secretary, said that given concerns about the potential for money-laundering, Libra was a national security issue and that Facebook has “a lot of work to do” convincing government.

The negative political rumblings on Libra were one factor behind a dramatic fall in digital- currency prices, a volatile market at the best of times. Bitcoin plunged by a third over the course of the week.

The EU’s competition regulator trained its sights on Amazon. The retailer is to be investigated over the process for sharing the “Buy Box” on its website with independent vendors, and whether it uses data provided by the vendors to its own advantage when selling its own products.

Netflix’s share price tumbled after it disclosed that it had lost subscribers in America for the first time in eight years and had signed up just 2.7mnew users globally in the second quarter, far below its forecast of 5m. Netflix raised the subscription price for its American customers earlier this year, just as it is about to face strong competition from other media companies starting their own online streaming services.

Sentence:
The EU’s competition regulator trained its sights on Amazon.
欧盟竞争监管机构将目光瞄准了亚马逊。

The retailer is to be investigated over the process for sharing the “Buy Box” on its website with independent vendors, and whether it uses data provided by the vendors to its own advantage when selling its own products.
该零售商将接受调查，以了解在其网站上与独立供应商共享“购买框”的过程，以及在销售自有产品时，是否利用供应商提供的数据为自己谋取利益。