Soaring stockmarket, peaking profits

After years of plenty America Inc is struggling to crank out higher earnings

Over the past 25 years America’s stockmarket has soared. Far from being built on thin air, this long bull run has rested on a boom in corporate profits. The worldwide earnings of all American firms, whether listed or not, have risen by 455% over this period and are now 35% above their long-term average relative to gdp. America Inc mints $1bn every five hours.

Globalisation, tepid wage rises, the ascent of tech and feeble competition made the bonanza possible. But as some of these forces ebb, the era of relentlessly expanding profits is under threat. Over the next few weeks America’s blue-chip companies will report their latest profit figures, which are expected to drop slightly (see Business section). Managers and investors need to be alert, especially given the growing number of firms with high debts that rely on bulging profits to stay afloat.

Profits are an essential part of capitalism—they reward savers, incentivise innovators and create surplus funds for investment. America is the home of the bottom line: firms based there account for 33 cents of every dollar made by listed companies worldwide. The level of profitability shifts over time: in the boom after 1945 American firms made hay, whereas they struggled in the mid-1980s. Even so the upswing since the 1990s has been striking. The worldwide post-tax earnings of American firms rose from 5.9% of gdp in 1994 to close to 10% now (the dip in the 2008-09 recession was short-lived). The trend echoes the prediction of Thomas Piketty, an economist, who argues that the rate of return on capital exceeds the rate of economic growth. This implies that company owners win an inexorably rising share of output as the rest of society is squeezed.

Sentence:
The level of profitability shifts over time: in the boom after 1945 American firms made hay, whereas they struggled in the mid-1980s.
盈利水平会随着时间的推移而变化:1945年之后的繁荣时期，美国公司赚得盆满钵满，而在上世纪80年代中期，它们却举步维艰。

Even so the upswing since the 1990s has been striking.
即便如此，自上世纪90年代以来的经济增长仍是惊人的。

This implies that company owners win an inexorably rising share of output as the rest of society is squeezed.
这意味着，随着社会其它方面受到挤压，公司所有者在产出中所占的份额将不可阻挡地上升。