##Financial firms have quietly prepared for Brexit

The benefits of scale, regulation and fear

Since britons chose to leave the European Union in June 2016, the clichés have piled up almost as thickly as the votes: “no deal is better than a bad deal”; “Brexit means Brexit”. And you might count yourself rich—even by the City of London’s standards—if you had a fiver for every time you had heard a banker say his firm was “hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst”. Four months before Britain is due to quit the eu, financial firms have long ago given up hoping for the best (for most, that Britain would remain after all) and are still not sure they will avoid the worst—a sudden, no-deal Brexit on March 29th 2019. But they have been quietly bracing themselves for it.
1.brace yourself (for sth):准备迎接〔令人不快的事〕
Nancy braced herself for the inevitable arguments. 
南希为这场无法避免的争论作好了准备。
The military needs to brace itself for further spending cuts, says McCoy.
麦科伊称，军方需要做好再次削减开支的准备。
brace yourself to do sth:
Cathy braced herself to see Matthew, who she expected to arrive at any minute. 
凯茜打起精神准备见马修，他随时可能到来。

Firms based in any eu member state may serve clients in any other: lending and raising money, trading and clearing derivatives, and insuring lives and property across the union without setting up shop locally, in a system known as “passporting”. London is by far the biggest base. If Parliament rejects Britain’s withdrawal agreement with the eu (a vote is due on December 11th), those London passports will expire in March. If it accepts the deal, they will run on while Britain and the eu sort out new arrangements. By June 2020 they should have frameworks to decide whether each other’s regulatory systems are “equivalent”, allowing some business to continue much as now. Either way, though, financial firms must keep serving their clients.

In preparing for Brexit, the financial industry has had three advantages over most other sectors. The first is size. Banks, insurers and asset managers tend to be big. Although they can imagine better uses for them, they have the resources for contingency planning. The second is regulation. Rules help you plan, even if Brexit’s final form is unclear. As things stand, for instance, banks and others will need bases in the eu27. Equivalence is an uncertain prize because the eu’s current rules allow it to withdraw its blessing at 30 days’ notice. And the clearing of derivatives is especially touchy (see article). The third is fear. No bank wants to tell a client on April 1st that it cannot execute a trade because the two are on opposite sides of the English Channel. And no supervisor wants Brexit to upset the financial system. Memories of 2007-08 are painfully but usefully fresh.
1.at 30 days’ notice:提前30天通知
2.touchy:easily becoming offended or annoyed
Asking about a reporter’s sources can be a touchy business. 
询问一名记者的消息来源有时是个敏感问题。

For two years and more, therefore, firms have been making preparations in other EU centres. Danièle Nouy, the head of the supervisory arm of the European Central Bank (ecb), said recently that 37 firms, including 25 banks, had secured new or improved licences or were close to doing so.
1.close:接近

The ECB is insisting that banks set up more than mere “empty shells”, in which business is booked with eu27 clients while the real business—and risk—stays in London, outside its purview. This means shifting assets and installing senior staff, such as risk and compliance managers. In particular, the ecb wants banks to avoid being “overly reliant” on “back-to-back” hedging strategies—coupling a transaction with an eu27 client in (say) its Frankfurt base with another internal deal, which moves the risk to its London balance-sheet.
1.purview:权限，范围
2.欧洲央行坚持要求银行建立的不仅仅是“空壳”，即业务由欧盟27个成员国的客户登记，而真正的业务—以及风险—留在伦敦，不受其管辖。这意味着要转移资产，并聘用风险和合规经理等高级员工。特别是，欧洲央行希望银行避免“过度依赖”“背靠背”的对冲策略——将一笔与欧盟27国(比如法兰克福)客户的交易，与另一笔将风险转移到伦敦资产负债表的内部交易结合起来。

According to Hubertus Väth of Frankfurt Main Finance, which promotes the German financial centre, 30 institutions are pitching camp in Frankfurt; the banks among them will shift €750bn-800bn ($850bn-910bn) of assets. Plenty of firms are building on existing foundations. hsbc is consolidating its eu27 banking subsidiaries in Paris, a city which also claims to have charmed a lot of firms; Bank of America and Barclays have chosen Dublin. And financial centres have developed specialities: Luxembourg, like Dublin, has pulled in insurers and asset managers; exchanges, such as the London Stock Exchange Group and cboe Global Markets, have headed to Amsterdam.
1.pitch camp:扎营

Firms are not putting everything in one place. Brexit is prompting big banks to put more sales people, especially, in several cities, so that they will be closer to their corporate clients, reversing a 20-year trend towards concentration in London.

All of this means more jobs in eu27 centres. It does not, however, yet add up to the Brexodus from the City that some feared. Some jobs—eg, in compliance—will have to be duplicated in London and the eu27, meaning more jobs overall. Wall Street banks speak of having a few hundred people in their eu bases on “day one”, whether that falls in March 2019 or in 2020. Over time, however, local hires as well as moves from London will bulk up the numbers. Mr Väth foresees “significant” second-round effects. In future years both supervisors and clients may demand that banks employ more people inside the eu.
1.Brexodus refers to a potential spillover effect of Brexit whereby there is an exodus of people and businesses from the United Kingdom. 
2.spillover:溢出，外流人口

Supervisors are also getting ready. On November 28th the Bank of England said British banks had enough capital and liquidity to bear even a “disorderly” no-deal Brexit, in which current trade agreements with non-eu countries are lost, border infrastructure cannot cope with customs requirements and gdp is 10.5% below its pre-referendum trend by the end of 2023.

*[1]Yet preparing for the worst can only take you so far.* One banker points out a difference between Brexit and mifid 2, a burdensome eu financial-markets directive that came into force at the start of 2018. The industry knew what mifid 2’s rules would be, prepared for it in a consistent way and could test its likely effects in advance. With Brexit none of that is true.
1.[1]然而，做最坏的打算也只能到此为止。
2.burdensome:causing problems or additional work
These charges are particularly burdensome for poor parents. 
这些收费对于没钱的家长负担尤其沉重。

The financial industry’s post-Brexit fortunes will depend on the economic health of those they serve. If they are roughed up by a no-deal Brexit, finance will be too. Moreover, many customers, lacking know-how, resources and the constant prodding from nervous supervisors, are unlikely to be as well prepared. Hold on, and hope.
1.rough up:遭受重创
2.constant prodding:不断催促，不断刺激