##Ahead of its time: Chinese tech
This week, Espresso is publishing its year-in-review editions. Today, economics

The technology industry is the crowning glory of America’s economy, supporting 7m well-paid jobs at home, and allowing America to set standards globally. Silicon Valley generates almost $200bn of profits from abroad each year. But China’s technology industry has been catching up far faster than expected. Yes, China still has huge weaknesses. Its tech firms’ investment budgets pale in comparison with those in America, they generate relatively little revenue abroad, and are puny in semiconductors and business-related software. But, China is now approaching parity on the most forward-looking measures. Its e-commerce and mobile payments industry is now bigger than America’s. Its universe of “unicorns” (unlisted firms worth over $1bn) is almost as large, as is its venture-capital sector. Both are proxies for China’s ability to produce tomorrow’s e-titans. At its present pace, China is still 10-15 years away from reaching tech parity with America. But American tech firms should take heed now.
1.pale:苍白的，无力的，暗淡的
2.puny:弱小的，微小的，微不足道的
3.take heed of sth:to pay attention to something, especially something someone says, and seriously consider it
The government was taking little heed of these threats. 
政府对这些威胁几乎不当回事。
Tom paid no heed to her warning. 
汤姆根本没有理会她的警告。

##Hyperactive: Venezuela’s currency
For those not enduring it, hyperinflation can seem mind-bendingly abstract. In Venezuela’s faltering economy, prices rose by 109% last month alone. But such figures are far from unprecedented: in the worst month of its postwar hyperinflation, Hungarian prices rose by 41,900,000,000,000,000%. The government had to print a 100 quintillion note. Venezuela’s hyperinflationary horror currently ranks only 23rd out of 58 episodes identified by Steve Hanke of Johns Hopkins University and Nicholas Krus. They calculate the time required for prices to double, at peak monthly rates. *[1]Their results provide a kind of “half-life” for a currency, showing how long it takes for it to lose 50% of its value.* This alternative calculation turns the astronomical percentages of hyperinflation into more mundane intervals of time. In Venezuela’s case it took 17.5 days in April for the currency to lose half its value. In Hungary’s worst month it took just 15 hours.
1.mind-bendingly:难以置信
2.quintillion:百万的三次方
3.[1]他们的研究结果为货币提供了一种“半衰期”，显示货币贬值50%需要多长时间。

##Jobs on the line: automation
Try typing “Will machines…” into Google and an algorithm offers to complete the sentence with differing degrees of disquiet: “...take my job?”; “...take all jobs?”; “...replace humans?”; “...take over the world?” But how anxious workers should be largely depends on the job. The OECD, a club of mostly rich countries, has assessed the automatability of each task within a given job, based on a survey of skills in 2015. Overall, 14% of jobs across 32 countries are highly vulnerable, defined as having at least a 70% chance of automation. At current employment rates, that puts 210m jobs at risk. The study also finds large variation across countries: jobs in Slovakia are twice as vulnerable as those in Norway. In general, workers in rich countries appear less at risk than those in middle-income ones. But wide gaps exist even between countries of similar wealth. This is because differences in organisational structure and industry mix also matter.

##Heavy duty: American tariffs
President Donald Trump has boasted: “Billions of Dollars are pouring into the coffers of the U.S.A. because of the Tariffs being charged to China.” Indeed, in November alone, the Treasury department collected $7.4bn in total customs duties, more than twice as much as a year earlier. But the costs of tariffs are borne largely by American firms and consumers. Importers that cannot rejig supply chains, or negotiate lower prices from suppliers, must absorb the costs of tariffs or pass them on to consumers in the form of higher prices. Retaliatory tariffs from China have also taken a toll. America’s government has promised a $12bn bail-out to compensate farmers for the economic damage caused by foreign tariffs on soyabeans and pork. This month however, America and China agreed to a trade truce, delaying upcoming American tariffs on $200bn worth of Chinese imports rising from 10% to 25%.
1.coffer:金库，国库
2.rejig:to arrange or organize something in a different way
plans to rejig the schedule
调整时间表的计划

##Cryptonite? Bitcoin’s bubble
A year ago the price of bitcoin on CoinMarketCap, a cryptocurrency exchange, neared $20,000. True believers hoped that was just the beginning. But bitcoin’s price is currently below $4,000, and trending downwards. And where bitcoin goes, other cryptocurrencies follow. All this marks the deflating of the third cryptocurrency bubble (the others were in 2011 and 2013). The trigger is unclear. One popular theory is that the supply of brave buyers willing to take a punt has now been exhausted. Regulatory interest may be another reason. America’s Department of Justice, to name one regulator, is probing price manipulation in cryptocurrencies, which is widely believed to be rife. Most fundamentally, bitcoin is still far from its notional goal of becoming a digital alternative to ordinary money. Technical faff, and the volatility that makes it attractive to speculators, means that it is hard to use bitcoin to actually buy things.
1.take a punt:下赌注
2.rife:if something bad or unpleasant is rife, it is very common
Violent crime is rife in our inner cities. 
暴力犯罪在我们的旧城区非常猖獗。
3.faff:to waste time doing unnecessary things

##The Federal Reserve
The Federal Reserve handed financial markets a lump of coal for Christmas, raising interest rates for the fourth time this year, despite pressure from President Donald Trump. Stocks fell sharply around the world after Jerome Powell, the Fed’s chair, said that signs of slower growth had not changed its outlook and that two more rate increases were likely next year.
1.a lump of coal:一块煤
Don't be afraid of pleasure. Remember that Pressure is what turns a lump of coal into a diamond
不要害怕压力。记住：正是压力，才把炭变成了钻石。

##Carlos Ghosn
A Japanese court refused a request to keep Carlos Ghosn, the former boss of Nissan, in prison. Mr Ghosn has been behind bars since mid-November after being arrested for alleged financial misconduct while at the carmaker. He has since been charged, however investigators asked that his detention be extended while they decide whether to bring a case over separate allegations.
