##The US-China trade war is on hold

Donald Trump and Xi Jinping agree a fragile truce at the G20 summit

PERHAPS IT was the dessert of caramel-rolled pancakes, crispy chocolate and fresh cream. Or perhaps President Donald Trump had already decided that, during a working dinner on December 1st, he wanted a deal with President Xi Jinping of China. *[1]Whatever it was, after sounds of applause drifted out to assembled journalists, the two announced a “highly successful” negotiation.* "This was an amazing and productive meeting with unlimited possibilities for both the United States and China,” said Mr Trump.
1.caramel:焦糖
2.[1]不管怎样，在聚集在一起的记者听到阵阵掌声后，两人宣布了一项“非常成功”的谈判。

A more realistic assessment would be that the meeting produced a truce based on two elements: some murky mercantilism, and a deal to talk about a deal. China will increase its purchase of American farm produce, energy and some industrial goods. In exchange America will delay an escalation in tariffs, from 10% to 25% on $200bn of goods planned for January 1st. That is on hold until March 1st at the earliest. But because the formal talks between the two countries could well fail, this truce is worryingly fragile.
1.escalate:to become higher or increase, or to make something do this
The costs were escalating alarmingly. 
成本在以惊人的速度增长

*[2]The Chinese commitment to raise purchases of American goods is by an amount “not yet agreed upon, but very substantial”.* That is supposed to reduce America’s bilateral trade deficit with China. Requiring the Chinese government to manage import flows is odd given how America’s government complains that China still behaves like a non-market economy.
1.[2]中国增加购买美国商品的承诺“尚未达成一致，但数额非常大”。

The idea is also economic nonsense. Bilateral trade deficits do not mean much, especially in an age when supply chains are global. In addition, the bilateral trade deficit is not only a function of Chinese imports, but also of Chinese exports to America. Even if the Chinese state can find ways to boost the purchase of American goods, it cannot determine the behaviour of American consumers. They may be eager to buy from China, if only to get hold of products before relations deteriorate again. In the year to date America’s trade deficit in goods has increased by 10%.

*[3]The foundations of the deal’s second part are almost as shaky.* In theory negotiators now have 90 days to agree “structural changes with respect to forced technology transfer, intellectual property protection, non-tariff barriers, cyber intrusions and cyber theft, services and agriculture.” That list is ambitious, particularly when levels of trust between the two sides are so low.
1.[3]协议第二部分的基础几乎同样不稳固。

One of the fundamental problems in relations between America and China is the difficulty of enforcing a deal. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) has a dispute-settlement process, but it has some gaps and can be slow. In the past the Chinese authorities have promised to do things bilaterally, but then dragged their feet. And it can be devilishly hard to prove that the Chinese state is culpable. When the American authorities accuse it of overseeing forced technology transfer, for example, they are complaining about a practice that is not written into any Chinese law. *[4]The demands are spoken and statistical evidence of an underlying policy is scant.*
1.devilishly:非常
a devilishly difficult task 
非常困难的任务
2.culpable:deserving blame
Both parties were held to be to some extent culpable. 
双方都被追究了一定的责任。
3.[4]这些要求都是口头上说出来的，基本政策的统计证据也很少。

Given the number of times the Chinese have broken their pledges not to make transfer of technology a condition of access into their market, America is unlikely to settle for a simple promise backed by the threat of extended tariffs. That means China will have to find mechanisms to demonstrate that, this time, it really has changed its ways.

鉴于中国多次违背不把技术转让作为进入中国市场的条件的承诺，美国不太可能满足于一个以推延期限的关税为威胁的简单承诺。这意味着，中国将必须找到机制来证明，这一次，它真的改变了自己的方式。

A more stable solution to the US-China tensions would involve co-operation with other countries. The European Union and Japan agree with many American complaints, and there has been some work to come up with new rules to resolve them. *[5]In the longer term the WTO could even help to enforce those, though not if the Trump administration persists in undermining its dispute-settlement system. However, although there was talk during the wider G20 meetings of reforming the organisation, the multilateral trading system did not seem to be much on Mr Trump’s mind.* And why should it be? Mr Xi’s offers will have shown that he can squeeze a lot out of China on his own. Why should he act multilaterally when bilateral bullying works so well? After the weekend’s G20 truce, businesses were quick to breathe sighs of relief. But this war is not over yet.
1.[5]长远来看世贸组织甚至可以帮助实施这些措施，但如果特朗普政府继续破坏其争端解决体系，情况就不是这样了。然而，尽管在更广泛的20国集团会议上有关于改革该组织的讨论，但特朗普似乎并未过多考虑多边贸易体系。