##Huawei’s courtroom
The bail hearing resumes today in a case that has global markets on edge. Meng Wanzhou, the finance chief of Huawei, a Chinese tech giant, was arrested earlier this month in Canada after America requested her extradition. American officials allege that she lied to banks about the firm’s links to a subsidiary in Iran, leading them to clear payments that contravened international sanctions. China’s foreign ministry has called her detention a human-rights violation. Businesses are worried that this will derail a fragile truce in the trade war. America had given China until March 1st to contend with its complaints about unfair economic practices, threatening to ratchet up tariffs if it doesn’t. So far, China is still making positive sounds about the prospects for a trade deal. And conveniently, it is directing much of its outrage about Ms Meng’s arrest at Canada. Talks with America can rumble on.
1.resume:if an activity or process resumes, it starts again after a pause
Peace talks will resume tomorrow. 
和平谈判明天重新启动。
2.on edge:nervous, especially because you are expecting something unpleasant to happen
Paul felt on edge about meeting Lisa. 
要与莉萨见面，保罗感到紧张不安。
3.contravene:to do something that is not allowed according to a law or rule
Some portions of the bill may contravene state law. 
这项议案中的一些部分可能与州法律相抵触。
4.derail:to spoil or interrupt a plan, agreement etc
a mistake that might derail the negotiations
可能会扰乱谈判的失误
5.ratchet up:to increase something by a small amount, especially after a series of increases, or to increase in this way
〔尤指在连续数次提高之后〕（使）小幅增加[提高]
Raising the minimum wage would ratchet up real incomes in general.,The debate will ratchet up a notch on Wednesday when the Commission publishes its report.
提高最低工资将普遍提高实际收入。,星期三委员会发表报告后，辩论还将升级。
6.notch:a level on a scale that measures something, for example quality or achievement
Her new book is several notches above anything else she has written. 
她的新书比她的其他作品高出了好几个等级。
Jackson raised his voice by a notch. 
杰克逊将嗓音提高了一度。
7.rumble on:if a disagreement rumbles on, it continues for a long time
The row about pay is still rumbling on. 
关于工资的争论还在继续。

##On target: arms sales
On December 3rd President Donald Trump tweeted his alarm at “what has become a major and uncontrollable Arms Race” between the big powers. A new report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, a think-tank, shows that business is indeed healthy for arms dealers. Sales of weapons and military services by the world’s 100 largest companies in the industry grew by 2.5% last year, to just shy of $400bn. They have risen by 44% since 2002. Americans remain the biggest purveyors, accounting for over half of all sales by companies on the list. But Russia is racing up the charts, knocking Britain off second place with just under a tenth of the total. Some trends may not last. Governments in the West are under pressure to curtail arms sales to their despotic friends in the Middle East, and the American army has been warned its budget might have to shrink in the coming years.
1.be shy (of sth):to have less than a particular amount of something
The Democrats are three votes shy of a majority. 
民主党离多数票还差三票。
2.purveyor:a business that supplies goods, services, or information
3.despotic:暴虐的，暴君的