##A history of China in 8m objects

A new network of museums does not gloss over the awkward bits

“We do not speak. We let the cultural relics speak!” declare the ambiguously worded signs around China’s most interesting history museum: the Jianchuan Museum Cluster, a sprawling, astonishing memorial to China’s 20th century. Taken literally, the notices are a request not to be noisy. They remind elderly couples or red-scarved school groups to whisper as they wander through the 33-hectare campus with its dozens of museums housing three-dimensional recreations of life under Japanese occupation in the 1940s, or during the “Red Age”. That is the museums’ tactful name for the 1960s and 1970s—above all the Cultural Revolution, the decade after 1966 when Mao Zedong unleashed terror on his own country, pitting neighbour against neighbour, students against teachers, children against parents and Red Guard mobs against officials whom Mao despised. More than a million lives were lost, and many more ruined. Centuries-old temples and libraries were smashed to so much rubble and firewood.

The signs also carry a symbolic meaning that no Chinese visitor can miss. In a country where historical studies are a tool of the Communist Party’s control, not an invitation to debate, the Jianchuan museums take another path. Quietly and sympathetically, without bossy sloganeering, they let visitors explore and share memories of the recent past, as jogged by a unique collection of some 8m artefacts. These are museums that show, rather than tell.

Taken as a whole, the exhibitions comprise the largest private-sector museum in China. They are the work, essentially, of one man, Fan Jianchuan, a government official turned property tycoon. His museums are divided between two sites. First came the campus outside Anren, a country town in the soft, green lowlands of Sichuan province. In June Mr Fan opened another complex in the Yangzi-river city of Chongqing. There he hosts Chaguan for a fiery Sichuanese lunch in offices above an old munitions factory built into a cliff. Restless and plain-speaking, he has the shaved head of a monk and the torso of a wrestler, squeezed into a green t-shirt with a motto that pays homage to his army years on the border with Russia. He talks of patriotism, calligraphy and the commercial headaches of running museums. Everything returns to his collector’s love of the authentic. “The real thing, this,” he says, giving the massive steel lunch-table a loud slap. “Second world war.”

China has no monuments that explicitly remember victims of the Cultural Revolution. The party has declared that period a disaster while asserting that Mao’s achievements far outweigh his mistakes. Until this year, a history textbook used in Chinese middle schools devoted three pages to the Cultural Revolution. In January social media erupted over news that that decade of turmoil is now covered in six paragraphs of a chapter headed “Arduous Exploration and Achievements in Development”.

Mr Fan’s museums pick no fights with a party whose accomplishments he notes with pride, and of which he is a member. His exhibits are sincerely patriotic. They have been garlanded with official praise and awards, notably for displays depicting the Japanese occupation. Over the course of a rainy couple of days this reporter shared the museums at Anren and Chongqing with flag-toting school parties and a platoon of uniformed police. Many visitors bring grandchildren, wanting them to comprehend a past that is so recent, and so alien.

At times the museums’ architecture hints at traumas that hundreds of millions of Chinese endured together. One entrance hall is a claustrophobic horror, and not by accident. Long, high-ceilinged and windowless, it is illuminated by red floor panels and—at the far end of the room—by a screen showing footage of hysterical Red Guards greeting Mao. No caption hints at a rebuke of the Great Helmsman. The museums do not challenge party injunctions about how the past should be remembered. Instead, they use relics and physical spaces to test the boundaries of what may be recalled.

Some objects evoke happy nostalgia. Spotting a sewing machine in a display about life in the 1970s, a man cries to his wife, daughter and mother-in-law: “My mother had one just like that! She made clothes, trousers and everything!” Other exhibits recall hardships. One museum in Anren is devoted to the nearly 18m urban youngsters who were banished to the countryside for years of ploughing, hauling manure and digging ditches instead of being educated. Propaganda photographs show such “sent-down youths” beaming as they toil, but nearby the diaries of some who endured the experience are displayed in glass cases. They speak of loneliness and longing. A visitor explains why he brought his son and four other teenagers: “It is necessary for them to know this. Their lives at home are too easy,” he murmurs.

Who owns the past?
The museums capture the paradox of a country that combines rising prosperity with ever-tighter political control. Private property—such as the relics collected here—enjoys stronger protection than at most times in China’s history. Yet Communist bosses remain unwilling to cede control over private thoughts, including the memories that such exhibits might evoke. Drawing the wrong lessons about the past can prompt charges of “historical nihilism”, an offence that sees museums punished and careers blighted.

Now 61, Mr Fan does not want China to forget hard-won lessons about past mistakes. But he calls it reasonable to wait another generation before debating who was right and who was wrong half a century ago. He has kept tons of historical papers in storage. If someone was raped or purged and never wants to speak of it, what right does he have to bring that up, he asks? “Why can’t China just tell its history straight? Because there’s no sure way of telling it straight. Everyone was involved,” he says with emphasis.

China’s complexities make Mr Fan reluctant to lecture. Instead he builds: his dream is another 50 museums, preserving still more relics for his fellow Chinese. One day, there will be a lot to say.