##Damage control: Turkey’s economy
The Turkish lira is at its strongest against the dollar since August, when American sanctions helped sink the currency to record lows. Inflation, which surged past 25% in annual terms in October, the worst since 2003, eased to under 22% in November. *[1]Given this, and possible pressure from President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who would like to rekindle growth ahead of local elections in March, the central bank might have been tempted to slash lending rates today. Instead, it held firm, keeping its one-week repo rate at 24%.* Inflation is hardly under control. Despite the recent recovery, the lira is still down by about 30% in dollar terms since the start of the year. A rate cut could have triggered another painful run on the currency. *[2]The economy, led by the construction sector, had guzzled cheap credit for years.* Turkey’s hangover must endure, but at least the central bank has shown some reassuring independence.
1.[1]考虑到这一点，以及土耳其总统埃尔多安可能施加的压力——埃尔多安希望在明年3月地方选举前重启经济增长——土耳其央行可能会忍不住在今天大幅下调贷款利率。相反，土耳其央行保持坚挺，将一周回购利率维持在24%。
2.guzzle:to eat or drink a lot of something, eagerly and quickly – usually showing disapproval
They’ve been guzzling beer all evening. 
他们整个晚上都在狂饮啤酒。
3.[2]多年来，以建筑业为主的土耳其经济一直在大量吸收廉价信贷。
4.hangover:旧时遗留之物（家底，猜词）
##Yes stressed: Indian banking
Investors loved Rana Kapoor, and for good reason. Under his flamboyant leadership Yes Bank’s stock price had risen 25-fold since he co-founded it in 2004. As India’s economy grew, its fourth-biggest bank expanded aggressively, too. In June shareholders voted to renew his term for another three years. It has been downhill ever since. In September the Reserve Bank of India demanded that Mr Kapoor step down in January after an audit found that Yes had repeatedly concealed the extent of its bad loans. Last year, they totaled 59bn rupees ($818m), over five times the reported figure. Last month Moody’s, a ratings agency, downgraded the bank’s credit rating to junk. Its market value dropped by half. Today the board will draw up a shortlist of possible candidates to replace Mr Kapoor. The bank insists that it is “more than prepared” for the transition. It had better be.
1.flamboyant:brightly coloured and easily noticed
2.Yes Bank:印度商业银行
3.go downhill:if a situation goes downhill, it gets worse
4.shortlist:（英）供最后挑选用的候选人名单