##Carlos Ghosn’s arrest shows the merits of a carmakers’ merger

The Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance is tarnished for good

Carlos ghosn was dubbed “Le Cost Killer” for his work transforming Renault, a French carmaker. After Renault rescued Nissan in 1999, he also became known as the “Keiretsu Killer” for severing the tangle of cross-shareholdings that had almost brought the Japanese firm to its knees. Nearly two decades later, Mr Ghosn’s creation, an alliance between Renault, Nissan and Mitsubishi, has become the world’s biggest carmaker. But his arrest in Japan has shed light on what a tangled and acrimonious cross-shareholding it, in its turn, has become. The time has come to overhaul it.
1.tarnish for good:名誉扫地
2.sever:to cut through something completely, separating it into two parts, or to become cut in this way
3.bring sb/sth to their knees:
to have such a bad effect on an organization, activity etc that it cannot continue 
使〔组织、活动等〕难以继续
The recession has brought many companies to their knees. 
经济衰退使许多公司难以维持。
4.acrimonious:an acrimonious meeting or discussion is one in which people argue a lot and get very angry
The meeting ended in an acrimonious dispute. 
会议在激烈的辩论中结束。
5.overhaul:to change a system or method in order to improve it
All the community’s decision-making institutions need to be overhauled. 
社区的所有决策机构都需要进行彻底改革。

No one emerges with any credit from the scandal that has landed Mr Ghosn, one of the world’s highest-flying chief executives, in a poky jail cell in Tokyo. If one thing is clear, it is that his imperious rule, jet-setting life (albeit much of it on company business) and high pay helped bring about his downfall by alienating once-loyal Japanese subalterns.
1.poky:too small and not very pleasant or comfortable
The whole family was crammed into two poky little rooms. 
全家人挤在两间狭小的房间里。
2.imperious:giving orders and expecting to be obeyed, in a way that seems too proud
She raised her hand in an imperious gesture. 
她傲慢地扬起手。
3.jet-setting:乘喷气客机到处旅游的富豪
4.alienate:to do something that makes someone unfriendly or unwilling to support you
The latest tax proposals will alienate many voters. 
最新的纳税提案将失去远许多选民的支持。
5.subaltern:部下

That is not enough to justify a judicial roughing-up, however. The accusations against Mr Ghosn by an internal Nissan investigation and Tokyo prosecutors remain murky. They range from suggestions that Mr Ghosn under-reported his deferred pay to the stockmarket over a five-year period from 2011, to allegations that he failed to declare his use of a string of corporate properties owned by Nissan. He has not officially commented on the accusations, though he has reportedly denied them.
1.defer:to delay something until a later date
The committee deferred their decision .
委员会延期作出决定。
Further discussion on the proposal will be deferred until April. 
对此提案的进一步讨论将推迟到4月份。

If true, however, they reflect as badly on Nissan as on him and his fellow detainee, Greg Kelly. Public filings on Mr Ghosn’s pay and perks would have been Nissan’s responsibility as well as his; any shortcomings should have been flagged up by internal as well as external audits. In a country that is at last overcoming decades of resistance to corporate-governance reform, the apparent lack of oversight is a stain on the reputation of Nissan and its board of directors. The more powerful Mr Ghosn became, the more essential the need for close board supervision.
1.perk:something that you get legally from your work in addition to your wages, such as goods, meals, or a car
I only eat here because it’s free – one of the perks of the job. 
我在这里吃饭只是因为不用花钱——这份工作的额外好处之一。
2.flag up:指出
3.resistance:〔对新观念或改变的〕反对，抗拒

A failure of governance would be bad enough. Worse still would be if Nissan’s executives, as some infer, tipped prosecutors off about Mr Ghosn’s suspected activities in order to stymie a possible takeover by Renault. The French firm’s 43.4% ownership of Nissan, which in turn owns a meagre 15% non-voting stake in Renault (as well as 34% of Mitsubishi), rankles among the top brass in Japan, not least because Nissan makes more cars and fatter profits than Renault. Mr Ghosn had made little secret of his desire to cement the alliance into something permanent, potentially via a merger. The possibility that this would be run by Renault, in which the French state is a 15% shareholder, scares not just Nissan’s executives but the Japanese government too.
1.rankle:if something rankles, you still remember it angrily because it upset you or annoyed you a lot 使人怀恨；使…怀恨
His comments still rankled. 
他的言论仍令人耿耿于怀。

The French government bears its own share of the blame for rising tensions within the alliance. Three years ago efforts by Emmanuel Macron, then France’s economy minister, to secure double-voting rights for long-term shareholders, the French state among them, sharpened Nissan’s suspicions that *[1]France would stand in the way of any plans to make the alliance more equitable by rebalancing the stakes.* Mr Ghosn’s removal offers an opportunity to put things on a proper footing.
1.[1]法国将阻碍任何通过重新平衡利害关系而使联盟更加公平的计划。
2.removal:免职

The fudge that currently exists, a Netherlands-based joint venture between Renault and Nissan chaired by Mr Ghosn, makes little sense now that the man who held everything together has gone. Although the alliance reported three-way “synergies” of €5.7bn ($6.4bn) last year, the numbers are vague. Instead, the three companies ought to merge properly. Carmakers need both scale and capital to prepare for the era of electric and autonomous vehicles. A full merger would allow more cost-cutting and sharing of production lines. The need to invest is one reason for gm’s announcement this week that it will cut 14,000 jobs and close seven factories (see article).
1.fudge:胡说

Nissaultbishi
The trouble is, the old guard is digging in. Nissan seems to have wrapped itself in the Japanese flag. The French state, suspicious of the circumstances of Mr Ghosn’s removal, is even less likely to cede control than it was before. An alliance that once put a halo on Mr Ghosn’s head has become an unholy mess.
1.the old guard:a group of people in an organization who want to do things in the way they were done in the past
保守派，传统派
2.cede:to give something such as an area of land or a right to a country or person, especially when you are forced to
Much of the territory along the border was ceded to the United States. 
沿着边境的大片领土被割让给美国。
3.halo:光环，荣光