##A buzzy technology: agriculture
By taking constant readings of everything from soil moisture to crop growth rates, sensor-equipped drones can boost agricultural productivity. If, that is, you can keep them in the air. Drones rely on batteries to stay aloft, which means their flight times are usually limited to around half an hour at best. On December 11th scientists from the University of Washington announced a better idea: strapping sensors to insects. The researchers fitted bumblebees and honeybees with tiny environmental sensors weighing just over a hundred micrograms and let them loose in the great outdoors. The results were encouraging: the insects were happy to fly about with their cargo, and the sensors, which are designed to upload data when the insect returns to its hive, performed as expected. *[1]How farmers could deal with the tricky task of gluing tiny circuit boards to hundreds of bees without being stung is a mere detail.* Bring on the internet of bees.
1.strap:用带子束住，捆绑
soldiers with grenades strapped to their belts
腰带上绑着手榴弹的士兵
He was only ten when he strapped on a guitar for the first time. 
他第一次背上吉他时才十岁。
2.[1]农民如何在不被蜂蜇的情况下，将微型电路板粘到数百只蜜蜂身上，这一棘手的任务还只是一个细节。

##After Moonlight: film
In the summer of 2013, Barry Jenkins was travelling around Europe. It had been five years since his first film, and he was feeling “open and fierce” and inspired. In Brussels, he wrote “Moonlight”—a coming-of-age drama that would go on to win a Best Picture Oscar—in ten days. He moved on to Berlin where, before seeking approval from the writer’s estate, he spent four weeks adapting a novel by James Baldwin. Mr Jenkins had long been in awe of Baldwin’s work, and “If Beale Street Could Talk”, published in 1974, was a compelling story of two young lovers set asunder by injustice, racism and incarceration. His film version (since blessed by Baldwin’s inheritors) is released in America this weekend. It is being compared to “Moonlight” for its investigations into family, intimacy and black manhood, its visual stylings and its powerful performances. Like its predecessor, it is also already being hailed as a major achievement.
1.coming-of-age:成长，成熟
2.Best Picture:最佳影片
3.awe:崇敬，赞叹
4.be torn/split/rent etc asunder
a nation torn asunder by internal conflicts
一个被内讧搞得四分五裂的国家
5.incarceration:监禁，下狱

##Donald Trump
Donald Trump announced that John Kelly would step down as White House chief of staff by the end of the year. Mr Kelly, a former marine general, was credited with bringing a modicum of discipline to the presidential office. Nick Ayers, Mr Trump’s first-choice replacement, turned down the job, saying he wanted to move back to Georgia with his family.
1.a modicum of sth:a small amount of something, especially a good quality
a modicum of common sense 
一点常识

##Michael Cohen
Michael Cohen, Mr Trump’s former lawyer, was sentenced to three years in prison for lying to Congress, among other things. Mr Cohen is co-operating with prosecutors and has alleged that Mr Trump asked him to pay hush money to two women who claim to have had flings with the president.

##Meng Wanzhou
The chief financial officer of Huawei, a Chinese technology company suspected in the West of having deep ties to the Chinese army, was granted bail in Canada following her arrest at the request of the United States. Prosecutors seeking to extradite Meng Wanzhou to America allege she misled financiers about doing business with Iran in violation of sanctions.