Business this week
The French finance minister said that Carlos Ghosn had resigned as chief executive and chairman of Renault, a day before the carmaker’s board was due to meet to discuss replacing him. The French government owns a stake in Renault and had pressed it to remove Mr Ghosn following alleged financial wrongdoing at Nissan, Renault’s global partner. Mr Ghosn was sacked as Nissan’s chairman when the scandal broke last November. He has again been denied bail in Tokyo and remains in custody. He denies wrongdoing.

Trying to find a new roadmap
Net profit at Ford fell by half last year, to $3.7bn, and it reported a fourth-quarter loss, as it continued to perform poorly in regions outside North America. The carmaker said it was facing many difficulties, including the absorption of tariff-related costs. It promised weary investors that it would soon give details of its crucial restructuring.

Tesla’s share price took a hammering after Elon Musk said he would have to cut full-time jobs by 7%. The electric-car maker’s workforce grew by 30% last year, which its boss conceded was “more than we can support”. Production of the Model 3 has ramped up, but Mr Musk wants to offer the mass-market sedan to customers at $35,000; the cheapest versions start at around $44,000.

The French data-protection office fined Google €50m ($57m) for the cursory manner in which it gained users’ consent. It was the first penalty levied against a big tech firm for breaching the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, which asserts that firms must be explicit when seeking such consent. Complaints had been lodged by data-privacy groups, including Vienna-based None of Your Business. 

The eu’s antitrust commissioner fined MasterCard €571m ($650m) for obstructing merchants’ access to cross-border card-payment services. The credit-card network co-operated with the investigation and says it stopped the practice years ago.

The IMF warned that “the global expansion is weakening and at a rate that is somewhat faster than expected”. The fund revised down its forecasts, particularly for advanced economies. The world’s economy is forecast to grow by 3.6% in 2020. Although that is stronger than in some previous years, the IMF thinks “the risks to more significant downward corrections are rising”, in part because of tensions over trade and uncertainty about Brexit. 

The IMF also cautioned that the slowdown in China could be deeper than expected, especially if the trade spat with America is unresolved. Its economy grew by 6.6% last year, the slowest annual pace since 1990. 

House sales in America (excluding newly built homes) fell by 10% in December compared with the same month in 2017, according to the National Association of Realtors. The median price of a home grew by just 2.9%, to $253,600.

It emerged that two activist hedge-funds have built stakes in eBay and are pushing the e-commerce company to spin off StubHub, its website for selling tickets, and its classified-ads division. EBay’s share price fell by a third last year from a peak in early February, as it struggled to compete with Amazon.

UBS said clients pulled a net $7.9bn from its wealth-management business in the last three months of 2018 amid a market sell-off. The Swiss bank’s pre-tax profit rose by 2% year on year, to $862m.

The trial began in London of John Varley, the chief executive of Barclays from 2004 to 2011, and three other former executives for alleged fraud in a deal with Qatari investors to prop up the bank in 2008. The four men deny the charges. The case, brought by the Serious Fraud Office, is expected to take up to six months in court. It is the first criminal trial of anyone who headed a big global bank during the financial crisis.

He’s for leaving, all right
Dyson, a British manufacturer founded by Sir James Dyson, a prominent Brexiteer, announced that it is to move its headquarters to Singapore. The official reason was to “future-proof” the company. But the timing, and the fact that in October Singapore signed a free-trade deal with the EU, drew derision from Remain supporters and dismay from hard-Brexiteers.

Netflix received its first Oscar nomination for best picture. “Roma”, the tale of a maid in Mexico City, gathered ten nominations in all (“Icarus”, another Netflix film, won best documentary feature last year). The streaming service gained an extra 8.8m paying subscribers in the fourth quarter of 2018, 7.3m of them outside the United States. They are attracted by its original content. “Bird Box”, a horror thriller, was watched by 80m households in its first four weeks on Netflix.

句子：
UBS said clients pulled a net $7.9bn from its wealth-management business in the last three months of 2018 amid a market sell-off.
瑞银(UBS)表示，在2018年最后三个月的市场抛售中，客户从其财富管理业务中净撤资79亿美元。

The Swiss bank’s pre-tax profit rose by 2% year on year, to $862m.
这家瑞士银行的税前利润同比增长2%，达到8.62亿美元。