Obituary Steve Sawyer

Steve Sawyer, leader of Greenpeace for 30 years, died on July 31st, aged 63

The young man Steve Sawyer briefly met on July 10th 1985 on the deck of the Greenpeace boat Rainbow Warrior, as it sat in dock at Auckland in New Zealand, had nothing remarkable about him. Short, slim, clean-shaven and with light blond hair, he looked like just another student visitor. He wished Mr Sawyer a happy birthday— as it was, with the full works of ice cream and cake—and good luck with his current campaign, to stop French nuclear testing in Mururoa. Then he left. At 1am, after a meeting onshore of the skippers of all the protest boats, Mr Sawyer got the call that the Rainbow Warrior had been sunk. Two limpet bombs placed on the hull had exploded, driving a huge hole through the engine room, and the boat’s photographer had drowned while trying to rescue his gear.

The “student”, it turned out, belonged to the French secret service. Mr Sawyer had long suspected that the French would try something. His campaign in Polynesia had been deliberately designed to annoy the hell out of them, so that they would take their radioactive poison and their vile weapons away from where people were trying to live. The Rainbow Warrior had already been rammed by French vessels and the crew beaten up, non-violence met with violence, so the gritty old re-purposed trawler was used to confrontation. This, however, was a whole new level.

And the repercussions shocked him. As he was trying to get to grips with the situation, people began turning up with bucketfuls of money. When he went to find a taxi, he was ushered to the front of the queue. In the baked-potato shop, the man at the cash register would not charge him. Across the world, people made donations and joined Greenpeace to protest against oil-drilling, mining, seal-hunting, whaling and dumping of toxic waste, as well as nuclear testing—anything which, in the words of Aldo Leopold, on which he had hung since college, destroyed “the integrity, stability and beauty” of the biosphere. Long before mobile phones, the bombing of the Rainbow Warrior created a media storm around him. The next year he found himself director of Greenpeace USA, and two years later director of Greenpeace International.

The bombing had filled him, and through him Greenpeace, with even more defiant purpose. Since its founding in 1971 this had been a raggedy band, making its point with risky stunts that were denounced more than praised. It was this hippy-crazy aspect that had made him, a hippy himself back then, sign up immediately when a canvasser came to the door. But he found, as a lifelong devotee of Tolkien, a strong Hobbit element too. When battered little boats put themselves between illegal whaling vessels and the whales, daring them to fire their harpoons, or their crews sprayed seal pups with green dye to make their fur worthless; when activists, so tiny against those monsters, scaled oil-rigs in the North Atlantic to unfurl banners reading “Climate Emergency”, or blocked pipelines belching toxic waste into the sea, he was reminded of the brave little group of Bilbo, Frodo, Sam and the rest, who left the quiet Shire “to shake the towers and counsels of the Great”. They were small, shaggy-haired and barefoot, usually unarmed and often frightened. But they lived, and eventually triumphed, by their wits. Every problem had a solution, and every battle could be won, if you thought hard and fast enough.

He taught himself that, deliberately wandering off barefoot in the woods to have to puzzle his way home. He taught his children that (giving his son Sam a good Hobbit name). And he taught Greenpeace, fiercely applying his red pen to press releases and, when necessary, demanding sharp thinking as loudly as he liked to play his blues guitar. He became, and was inevitably called, Gandalf, not merely for his grizzled beard, lean sportsman’s height and philosophy degree, but also for the wise way he managed his ever-growing crowd of anti-authoritarians. Under him the organisation gained weight in every sense. Therefore it won battles. The French abandoned their nuclear testing in Polynesia, besides losing the damages suit that Greenpeace had filed against their government. Bugged by small-boat irritation, the United States ceased its testing off Alaska. In 1987 the Montreal protocol curbed CFC depletion of the ozone layer, and in 1991 the Antarctic protocol, which people thought unachievable, barred drilling there for 50 years. By the time he stepped down, in 2007, he had put Greenpeace at the centre of attempts to counter climate change.

Under him it also expanded its humanitarian side, sending its boats to help after typhoons and tsunamis. This was a role which it, and he, had stumbled into almost by accident in 1985, when he made a detour on Rainbow Warrior’s voyage to Polynesia to evacuate 300 people, their livestock and parts of their buildings from Rongelap atoll to another island. Fallout from American nuclear testing had made the atoll uninhabitable, but the Americans had declared it clear, despite a horrifically high rate of stillbirths, deformities and cancers. Nothing he did afterwards meant more to him than that rescue, and few things moved him more than seeing the livid thyroidectomy scars of the women who greeted him. But one was the thought of what Greenpeace was engaged in: “nothing less than a fight to the death for the future of the planet”.

His progress in that fight could be traced through the Greenpeace boats. The seaborne aspect of most protests was partly why he had joined, as someone who had loved to sail from childhood on the lakes near his home in New Hampshire. In 1981 he masterminded the refit of the first Rainbow Warrior, putting in bus engines because, appropriately, they had been used in landing craft on D-Day, and later installing a ketch rig for the Pacific voyage. Its successor, Rainbow Warrior II, launched in 1989, was a refitted three-mast schooner; the next, Rainbow Warrior III, was a purpose-built yacht with no less than 1,255 square metres of sail. By then, as director of the Global Wind Energy Council, he was working fulltime and worldwide to promote wind power. It was promoted too through the ever-increasing strength, utility and beauty of the Rainbow Warriors, risen from the harbour floor in Auckland to take on the guarding of the Earth.

Sentence:
His campaign in Polynesia had been deliberately designed to annoy the hell out of them, so that they would take their radioactive poison and their vile weapons away from where people were trying to live.
他在波利尼西亚的抗议活动是被故意设计来激怒法国人的，这样法国人就会把他们的放射性物质和邪恶的武器从人们试图居住的地方带走。

The Rainbow Warrior had already been rammed by French vessels and the crew beaten up, non-violence met with violence, so the gritty old re-purposed trawler was used to confrontation.
彩虹勇士号已经遭到法国船只的撞击，船员遭到殴打，非暴力遭遇暴力，所以这艘坚韧不拔、老旧的、重新改装过的拖网捕鱼船已经习惯了对抗。

This, however, was a whole new level.
然而， 这次对抗升级到新的水平。

And the repercussions shocked him.
这件事带来的影响使他震惊。

When battered little boats put themselves between illegal whaling vessels and the whales, daring them to fire their harpoons, or their crews sprayed seal pups with green dye to make their fur worthless;
当被撞坏的小船把自己挡在非法捕鲸船和鲸鱼之间，让它们不敢使用鱼叉，或者让船员给海豹幼崽喷上绿色染料，让它们的皮毛变得毫无价值；

when activists, so tiny against those monsters, scaled oil-rigs in the North Atlantic to unfurl banners reading “Climate Emergency”;or blocked pipelines belching toxic waste into the sea,
跟那些庞然大物相比，弱小的绿色和平组织积极分子爬上北大西洋的石油钻井平台，展开写着“气候紧急情况”的横幅时；或阻塞向海洋喷射有毒废物的管道，

 he was reminded of the brave little group of Bilbo, Frodo, Sam and the rest, who left the quiet Shire “to shake the towers and counsels of the Great”.
他想起了比尔博、佛罗多、山姆和其他人组成的勇敢小团体（出自《指环王》），他们离开了宁静的夏尔镇，“去撼动大人物的主心骨和提议”。

But they lived, and eventually triumphed, by their wits.Every problem had a solution, and every battle could be won, if you thought hard and fast enough.
但他们活了下来，并最终凭借自己的智慧取得了胜利。每一个问题都有解决的办法，只要你努力思考和想得足够快，每一场战斗都能赢。

Under him the organisation gained weight in every sense.
在他的领导下，这个组织在各方面都增加了分量。

The French abandoned their nuclear testing in Polynesia, besides losing the damages suit that Greenpeace had filed against their government.
法国放弃了在波利尼西亚的核试验，以及输掉了绿色和平组织对法国政府提出的损害赔偿诉讼。

Bugged by small-boat irritation, the United States ceased its testing off Alaska.
由于受到小船的干扰，美国停止了在阿拉斯加海域的试验。

In 1987 the Montreal protocol curbed CFC depletion of the ozone layer, and in 1991 the Antarctic protocol, which people thought unachievable, barred drilling there for 50 years.
1987年的《蒙特利尔议定书》(Montreal protocol)限制了氟利昂对臭氧层的破坏，1991年的《南极议定书》(Antarctic protocol)——人们认为这是不可能实现的——50年内禁止在南极钻探。

By the time he stepped down, in 2007, he had put Greenpeace at the centre of attempts to counter climate change.
2007年卸任时，他已将绿色和平组织置于对抗气候变化努力的中心。

Nothing he did afterwards meant more to him than that rescue, and few things moved him more than seeing the livid thyroidectomy scars of the women who greeted him.
他后来所做的一切，对他来说，没有什么比那次营救更有意义的了，没有什么比看到迎接他的妇女甲状腺切除术后留下的青灰色伤疤更让他感动的了。

nothing less than a fight to the death for the future of the planet
这无异于为地球的未来而进行一场殊死搏斗

It was promoted too through the ever-increasing strength, utility and beauty of the
Rainbow Warriors，risen from the harbour floor in Auckland to take on the guarding of the Earth.
风力发电也是通过实用和美观的彩虹勇士号不断增长的力量而得到促进，从奥克兰的海底升起，肩负起保卫地球的重任。