Only the healthy and wealthy 
The Trump administration published a rule that would stop legal migrants from becoming permanent residents in America if they use public-welfare programmes, such as food stamps. Migrants must already prove they will not rely on government assistance if they want to stay. The new rule specifies that receiving certain benefits will be a disqualifying factor. Ken Cuccinelli, who heads the immigration agency, said that America wants “self-sufficient” immigrants.

An indicative vote in Argentina’s presidential election suggested that the opposition, led by Alberto Fernández with the country’s previous president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner (no relation), as his running-mate, would handily win the actual election in October. The Argentine Peso shed a quarter of its value against the dollar and its main stockmarket fell by 37%. Investors fear the return of Ms Fernández, whose policies between 2007 and 2015 ruined the economy.

The result was a blow to the incumbent Argentine president, Mauricio Macri. After the poll he announced a number of giveaways to win over voters, including tax cuts, more welfare subsidies and a three-month freeze in petrol prices.

The election of Alejandro Giammattei as Guatemala’s president threw doubt on the safe-third-country agreement signed by the outgoing president, Jimmy Morales, with the United States. Under the deal some migrants would seek asylum in Guatemala rather than travelling through Mexico to the American border. Mr Giammattei thinks Guatemala might not be able to honour that commitment.

The nomination by Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, of his son, Eduardo, as ambassador to the United States prompted the public prosecutor’s office to ask a federal court to rule on the formal qualifications required to be a diplomat. Eduardo Bolsonaro’s appointment must still be confirmed by the senate in Brasília, but that hasn’t stopped the opposition from crying foul, saying his only diplomatic credentials seem to be that he is a friend of the Trump family.

Canada’s ethics commissioner criticised Justin Trudeau, the prime minister, for pressing a former attorney-general to drop charges against a firm accused of bribery in Libya. The commissioner said Mr Trudeau and his office acted outside the bounds of convention, and that their behaviour was “tantamount to political direction”. His report complicates Mr Trudeau’s bid for re-election in October.

Hope at last
Two treatments for Ebola proved to be effective in tests conducted in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where the latest outbreak has killed 1,900 people. The survival rate jumps to 90% if the treatments, which employ special antibodies, are given soon after infection. If untreated, most people who catch Ebola die.

Southern separatists in Yemen seized the city of Aden from forces loyal to the internationally recognised government. The separatists and the government are part of a Saudi-led coalition fighting the Iranian backed Houthi rebels, who control much of the country. Many in the south dislike the government, as well as the Houthis, and hope to secede.

Failing a test
Mystery surrounded an explosion in Russia’s far north, which led to a spike in radiation in nearby towns. The Russians said only that a rocket had exploded, killing five scientists. Analysts think it may have been a Skyfall, a cruise missile powered by a tiny nuclear reactor that the Russians are developing.

Another huge weekend protest, this one the biggest yet, was held in Moscow in opposition to the authorities’ decision to bar certain candidates from contesting elections to the city council. The demonstration had been authorised, but police still beat up many of those taking part.

John Bolton, Donald Trump’s national security adviser, visited Boris Johnson, the new British prime minister, in London. Mr Bolton held out the prospect of a quick trade deal, negotiated sector by sector (to placate those worried by American designs on Britain’s health service) in the case of a no-deal Brexit. But a few days later Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic Speaker of Congress, again scotched any hope of a deal if Britain reinstates border controls with Ireland post-Brexit.

America’s envoy to Afghanistan described the latest round of peace talks with the Taliban as “productive”. The talks, held in Qatar, ended without a deal by which American troops would leave Afghanistan. America is hoping to secure an agreement soon, ahead of a postponed presidential election in Afghanistan that is scheduled for September 28th. Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president, this week rejected what he described as foreign interference in his country.

A communications blackout was still in force in most of Indian-administered Kashmir following the government’s decision to strip the region of its autonomy and split it into two territories that will in effect be controlled from Delhi. Sporadic protests broke out. The biggest took place in Srinagar, Kashmir’s main city, where thousands of Muslims took to the streets after Friday prayers.

A former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev, was charged with collusion in the early release of a mafia boss. Mr Atambayev has fallen out with his successor and former protégé, Sooronbay Jeyenbekov. Investigators say Mr Atambayev could face other charges, including of murder, after a dramatic siege of his home left a police officer dead.

Sentence:
Eduardo Bolsonaro’s appointment must still be confirmed by the senate in Brasília, but that hasn’t stopped the opposition from crying foul, saying his only diplomatic credentials seem to be that he is a friend of the Trump family.
爱德华多·博尔索纳罗(Eduardo Bolsonaro)的任命仍需得到巴西利亚参议院的批准，但这并没有阻止反对派的叫嚷，称他唯一的外交资历似乎是他是特朗普家族的朋友。

The commissioner said Mr Trudeau and his office acted outside the bounds of convention, and that their behaviour was “tantamount to political direction”.
特鲁多表示，特鲁多及其办公室的行为超出了公约的范围，他们的行为“等同于政治方向”。

Southern separatists in Yemen seized the city of Aden from forces loyal to the internationally recognised government.
也门南部分裂分子从忠于国际承认的政府的部队手中夺取了亚丁市。

The separatists and the government are part of a Saudi-led coalition fighting the Iranianbacked Houthi rebels, who control much of the country.
分裂分子和政府是沙特领导的联盟的一部分，该联盟与伊朗支持的胡塞叛军作战。胡塞叛军控制着也门的大部分地区。

Many in the south dislike the government, as well as the Houthis, and hope to secede.
南部的许多人不喜欢政府，也不喜欢胡塞叛军，他们希望脱离。

Mystery surrounded an explosion in Russia’s far north, which led to a spike in radiation in nearby towns.
俄罗斯北部发生爆炸，导致附近城镇的辐射激增，这一事件一直笼罩在神秘之中。

The Russians said only that a rocket had exploded, killing five scientists.
俄罗斯方面只表示，一枚火箭爆炸，造成5名科学家死亡。

Analysts think it may have been a Skyfall, a cruise missile powered by a tiny nuclear reactor that the Russians are developing.
分析人士认为，这可能是天幕坠落，是一种巡航导弹，由俄罗斯正在开发的一个小型核反应堆提供动力。

But a few days later Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic Speaker of Congress, again scotched any hope of a deal if Britain reinstates border controls with Ireland post-Brexit.
但几天后，民主党国会议长南希•佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)再次打消了英国在脱欧后恢复对爱尔兰边境控制的任何希望。

A communications blackout was still in force in most of Indian-administered Kashmir following the government’s decision to strip the region of its autonomy and split it into two territories that will in effect be controlled from Delhi.
在政府决定剥夺该地区的自治权，并将其分割为两个实际上将由德里控制的领土之后，印度管辖的克什米尔大部分地区仍在实行通讯管制。

Sporadic protests broke out.
零星的抗议爆发了。

The biggest took place in Srinagar, Kashmir’s main city, where thousands of Muslims took to the streets after Friday prayers.
其中最大的一场发生在克什米尔主要城市斯利那加，数千名穆斯林在周五祈祷后走上街头。