Michael O’Leary, the boss of Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline, said that around 900 jobs might be shed, including 500 pilots, in part because the grounding of Boeing’s 737 max aircraft has caused Ryanair to cut flights.

The Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate for the first time since the financial crisis, by a quarter of a percentage point to a range of between 2%and 2.25%. After nearly four years of tightening, Jerome Powell, the central bank’s chairman, said the Fed was loosening monetary policy amid uncertainties about trade and the world economy as well as lower inflation expectations. A few days before the Fed’s meeting, figures showed that the American economy grew at an annualised rate of 2.1% in the second quarter, well below the first quarter’s 3.1%.

The euro zone’s economy grew at an annualised rate of just 0.8% in the second quarter. Inflation,meanwhile, fell again in July, to 1.1%, short of the European Central Bank’s 2% target. At a meeting of the ECB on July 25th, Mario Draghi, its outgoing president, signalled that he was “determined to act” to address the euro zone’s persistently low inflation. Many investors are expecting a new round of interest-rate cuts in September.

Computer world
The London Stock Exchange reached an agreement to buy Refinitiv, a provider of financial data, for $27bn. Refinitiv is jointly owned by Blackstone and Thomson Reuters, who will both obtain a stake in the LSE as part of the deal. By acquiring Refinitiv, the stock exchange and clearing house group will greatly expand its market-information operations, pitting it on many trading floors against Bloomberg, another data provider.

In a deal that creates a behemoth in the market for everyday drugs, Pfizer agreed to merge its off-patent medicines business with Mylan, a generics drugmaker. The transaction will place Pfizer’s previously bestselling drugs such as Viagra, which came up against stiff competition from generic versions when its patent expired, in a new company alongside Mylan’s products.

In Washington the Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved sanctions on firms involved with Nord Stream 2, Russia’s gas pipeline to Germany (Congress must approve the bill). Observers think the pipeline is an attempt by Vladimir Putin to increase European reliance on Russian energy.

America’s Justice Department approved the merger of T-Mobile and Sprint, but only after the mobile-telecoms companies agreed to sell a range of assets to Dish, a satellite- tv company, that will bolster its wireless services and expand competition in the market. T-Mobile and Sprint still face a lawsuit trying to block the deal brought by several states, led by California and New York, before they can seal their transaction.

Huawei, a Chinese telecomsequipment maker, reported a 23% increase in revenue in the first half of the year and said its 5g business was thriving, despite being blacklisted by America. The company did acknowledge, however, that America’s prohibition on its hardware was affecting smartphone sales outside China.

SoftBank announced the creation of a second Vision Fund through which it and outside investors will back technology startups. The new fund hopes to raise $108bn.

After 20 years of legal to and fro, the European Court of Justice ruled that a two-second sample from Kraftwerk’s “Metall auf Metall” that was used in another song represented a reproduction of the original work and required a licence. The decision could have a profound effect on the music industry, especially hip-hop. The court also decided, however, that a music sample that had been “modified” did not amount to a reproduction.

InterContinental Hotels, which counts the Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn brands among its assets, became the first global hotel business to stop supplying miniature toiletries in its rooms in order to cut down on plastic. It will instead provide shampoo and the like in larger receptacles across its more than 5,600 properties.

The model
Procter & Gamble recorded a big net quarterly loss after writing down the value of its Gillette shaving products business by $8bn. This was in part because of a “lower shaving frequency” in developed markets, as the fashion for beards grows ever more popular among younger men.

The rivalry in the food-delivery market heated up with Takeaway. com’s $10bn proposed takeover of Just Eat. Takeaway operates mostly in Germany and eastern Europe, and Just Eat in Britain and western Europe; a merger would make them more competitive against Uber Eats and Deliveroo. Food-delivery drivers are also taking a bigger bite of the market; a survey this week found that more than a quarter of them in America had nibbled on customers’ orders.

Sentence:
The euro zone’s economy grew at an annualised rate of just 0.8% in the second quarter.
第二季度欧元区经济年化增长率仅为0.8%。

Inflation,meanwhile, fell again in July, to 1.1%, short of the European Central Bank’s 2%target.
与此同时，7月份通货膨胀率再次下降，为1.1%，低于欧洲央行2%的目标。

At a meeting of the ECB on July 25th, Mario Draghi, its outgoing president, signalled that he was “determined to act” to address the euro zone’s persistently low inflation.
在7月25日的欧洲央行会议上，即将离任的欧洲央行行长马里奥•德拉吉(Mario Draghi)表示，他“决心采取行动”，解决欧元区持续低通胀的问题。

Many investors are expecting a new round of interest-rate cuts in September.
许多投资者预计9月份将出现新一轮的降息。

In a deal that creates a behemoth in the market for everyday drugs, Pfizer agreed to merge its off-patent medicines business with Mylan, a generics drugmaker.
辉瑞同意将其非专利药物业务与仿制药制造商迈兰(Mylan)合并。

The transaction will place Pfizer’s previously bestselling drugs, which came up against stiff competition from generic versions when its patent expired, in a new company alongside Mylan’s products.
这笔交易将把辉瑞此前最畅销的药品与Mylan的产品一起并入一家新公司。

After 20 years of legal to and fro, the European Court of Justice ruled that a two-second sample from Kraftwerk’s “Metall auf Metall” that was used in another song represented a reproduction of the original work and required a licence.
经过20年的反复诉讼，欧洲法院裁定，Kraftwerk的《Metall auf Metall》中出现在另一首歌曲中的两秒钟样本代表了对原作的复制，需要获得授权。

The decision could have a profound effect on the music industry, especially hip-hop.
这一决定可能对音乐产业产生深远影响，尤其是嘻哈音乐。

The court also decided, however, that a music sample that had been “modified” did not amount to a reproduction.
然而，法院还裁定，“修改”过的音乐样本不等于复制。

InterContinental Hotels, which counts the Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn brands among its assets, became the first global hotel business to stop supplying miniature toiletries in its rooms in order to cut down on plastic.
洲际酒店集团(InterContinental Hotels)成为首家停止在客房供应微型化妆品以减少塑料制品的全球酒店企业。该集团旗下资产包括皇冠假日酒店(Crowne Plaza)和假日酒店(Holiday Inn)品牌。

It will instead provide shampoo and the like in larger receptacles across its more than 5,600 properties.
相反，该公司将在其5600多家门店的更大容器中提供洗发水等产品。

Procter & Gamble recorded a big net quarterly loss after writing down the value of its Gillette shaving products business by $8bn.
宝洁(Procter & Gamble)在将吉列(Gillette)剃须产品业务价值减记80亿美元后，录得巨额季度净亏损。

This was in part because of a “lower shaving frequency” in developed markets, as the fashion for beards grows ever more popular among younger men.
这在一定程度上是因为发达市场的“剃须频率较低”，留胡子的时尚在年轻男性中越来越流行。