Dangerous miscalculations

America cannot have a strong economy, a trade war and a weak dollar all at the same time

Since the trade war began in 2018 the damage done to the global economy has been surprisingly slight. America has grown healthily and the rest of the world has muddled along. But this week the picture darkened as the confrontation between America and China escalated, with more tariffs threatened and a bitter row erupting over China’s exchange rate. Investors fear the dispute will trigger a recession, and there are ominous signs in the markets—share prices fell and government-bond yields sank to near-record lows. To avoid a downturn, both sides need to compromise. But for that to happen President Donald Trump and his advisers must rethink their strategy. If the realisation has not dawned yet, it soon should: America cannot have a cheap currency, a trade conflict and a thriving economy.

The latest spike in tensions began on August 1st, when the White House threatened to impose a further round of duties on $300bn of Chinese exports by the start of September. China responded four days later by telling its state-run companies to stop buying American agricultural goods. On the same day it let its heavily managed currency pass through a rate of seven against the dollar, a threshold which may seem arbitrary but is symbolically important.

That lit a fuse beneath the Oval Office. Mr Trump has long claimed that other countries, including China, keep their currencies artificially cheap to boost their exports, hurting America. He has been griping about the strong dollar for months. In June he accused Mario Draghi, the head of the European Central Bank, of unfairly weakening the euro by hinting at rate cuts. Hours after the yuan dropped, America’s Treasury designated China a “currency manipulator” and promised to eliminate its “unfair competitive advantage”. As the hostilities rose, markets swooned, with ten-year bond yields in America reaching 1.71%, as investors judged that the Federal Reserve will slash interest rates to try to keep the expansion alive.

There is no denying that China has manipulated its exchange rate in the past. But today a different dynamic is playing out around the world. Mr Trump wants a booming economy, protected by tariffs and boosted by a cheap dollar, and when he doesn’t get them he lashes out. But economic reality makes these three objectives hard to reconcile. Tariffs hurt foreign exporters and dampen growth beyond America’s borders; weaker growth in turn leads to weaker currencies, as business becomes cautious and central banks ease policy in response. The effect is particularly pronounced when America is growing faster than other rich countries, as it has recently. The dollar’s enduring strength is a result, in part, of Mr Trump’s policies, not of a global conspiracy.

Unless this fact sinks in soon, real harm will be done to the global economy. Faced with the uncertainty created by a vicious superpower brawl, firms in America and elsewhere are cutting investment, hurting growth further. Lower interest rates are making Europe’s rickety banks even more fragile. China could face a destabilising flood of money trying to leave its borders, as happened in 2015. And further escalation is possible as both sides reach for economic weapons that were considered unthinkable a few years ago. America could intervene to weaken the dollar, undermining its reputation for unfettered capital markets. China or America could impose sanctions on more of each other’s multinational firms, in the same way that America has blacklisted Huawei, or suspend the licences of banks that operate in both countries, causing havoc.

As it pursues an ever more reckless trade confrontation, the White House may imagine that the Federal Reserve can ride to the rescue by cutting rates again. But that misunderstands the depth of unease now felt in factories, boardrooms and trading floors around the world. In September talks between America and China are set to resume. It is time for a settlement. The world economy cannot stand much more of this.

Sentence:
Since the tradewar began in 2018 the damage done to the global economy has been surprisingly slight.
自2018年贸易战爆发以来，对全球经济造成的损害出奇地轻微。

America has grown healthily and the rest of the world has muddled along.
美国经济健康发展，而世界其他国家却浑浑噩噩。

muddle along
to continue doing something without having any clear plan or purpose, or without having enough help or support
混日子，得过且过；胡乱地干下去
There’s no point in muddling on in the same old job for ever. 
老在同一份工作上混下去没意思。
Many of the students complained that they were left to muddle along on their own. 
有许多学生抱怨没人管他们，随他们自己得过且过。

If the realisation has not dawned yet, it soon should: America cannot have a cheap currency, a trade conflict and a thriving economy.
如果这种意识还没有显现出来，那么它应该很快就会显现出来:美国不可能拥有廉价的货币、贸易冲突和繁荣的经济。

As the hostilities rose, markets swooned, with ten-year bond yields in America reaching 1.71%, as investors judged that the Federal Reserve will slash interest rates to try to keep the expansion alive.
随着敌对情绪的加剧，市场一片混乱，由于投资者认为美联储将大幅降息以维持经济扩张，美国10年期债券收益率下降到1.71%。

Tariffs hurt foreign exporters and dampen growth beyond America’s borders;weaker growth in turn leads to weaker currencies, as business becomes cautious and central banks ease policy in response.
关税伤害了外国出口商，抑制了美国境外的经济增长;经济增长放缓进而导致货币走弱，因为企业变得谨慎，各国央行也相应放松了政策。

The effect is particularly pronounced when America is growing faster than other rich countries, as it has recently.
当美国的经济增长速度超过其他发达国家时，这种影响尤其明显，就像最近一样。

The dollar’s enduring strength is a result, in part, of Mr Trump’s policies, not of a global conspiracy.
美元持续走强，在一定程度上是特朗普政策的结果，而不是全球阴谋的结果。

Unless this fact sinks in soon, real harm will be done to the global economy.
除非人们很快认识到这一事实，否则全球经济将受到真正的伤害。

sink in
if information, facts etc sink in, you gradually understand them or realize their full meaning
〔信息、事实等〕逐渐被充分理解
He paused a moment for his words to sink in. 
他停顿了片刻，好让人充分理解他的话。
The implications of Labour’s defeat were beginning to sink in. 
人们开始意识到工党败选所带来的影响。

As it pursues an ever more reckless trade confrontation, the White House may imagine that the Federal Reserve can ride to the rescue by cutting rates again.
随着美国继续进行一场越来越不计后果的贸易对抗，白宫可能会认为，美联储(fed)可以再次降息，出手相救。

But that misunderstands the depth of unease now felt in factories, boardrooms and trading floors around the world.
但这误解了全球工厂、董事会和交易大厅目前感受到的不安的深度。