Business and Politics this week

SoftBank was reported to be planning to lend staff up to $20bn so that they can buy stakes in Vision Fund 2. That would come on top of the $38bn that the Japanese conglomerate is itself ploughing into the venture-capital project, raising questions about SoftBank’s exposure to potentially risky tech startups.

Separately, Alibaba has reportedly postponed a blockbuster listing of shares on the Hong Kong exchange in part because of the political uncertainty.

The Business Roundtable, America’s foremost association of chief executives, caused a stir when it redefined the purpose of a company, ditching the decades-old orthodoxy that increasing shareholder value should be the only objective. Now, the bosses say, companies should also look out for the interests of customers, workers, suppliers and communities, and aim to increase diversity and protect the environment. The statement was signed by almost 200 CEOs, encompassing relative upstarts, such as Amazon and Apple, as well as companies that trace their roots back well over 100 years, including ExxonMobil, General Motors, JPMorgan Chase and Macy’s.

The minutes from the Federal Reserve’s latest meeting revealed splits over whether to lower its main interest rate. The central bank opted for a cut of a quarter of a percentage point, but two of the ratesetters wanted a half-point cut. Others wanted to hold rates steady.

Germany’s central bank warned that there was a real risk the country could slip into recession, describing the economy as “lacklustre”. The Bundesbank pointed to data showing that industrial production is still slowing.

Thailand’s government announced a $10bn stimulus package to spur growth in the economy, which has been hit by a surging currency, leading to a slump in exports. GDP rose by 2.3% in the second quarter compared with the same three months last year, the slowest rate since mid-2014. The stimulus measures include incentives for Thais to holiday in their country, as well as extra support for farmers, small businesses and the poor.

In a move that it described as a “market-based reform”, China’s central bank set a new benchmark interest rate, the Loan Prime Rate, which will more closely resemble what commercial banks pay it to borrow.

American regulators approved an easing of the restrictions on trading by banks that had been introduced under the Volcker rule during the financial crisis. The changes, first mooted in May 2018, simplify the legal definitions of what constitutes proprietary trading, where banks use their own money to invest. Critics contend that weakening the rule will allow banks once again to engage in risky bets through opaque financial instruments.

America’s Commerce Department extended the exemption period under which some American companies can conduct business with Huawei, to November 19th. This is primarily to allow rural telecom providers more time “to wean themselves off” the Chinese maker of telecoms equipment, which has been slapped with a ban over national-security concerns.

A long stretch of cost-cutting and the sale of its shale-gas business boosted the fortunes of BHP. The mining company reported underlying income of $9.1bn for the 12 months ending June, its best annual profit in five years, and returned a record dividend to shareholders. Although demand for BHP’s iron ore, copper and coal is still strong in China, it flagged trade tensions as a potential threat to business.

As it works towards restoring investor confidence following its troubled acquisition of Monsanto, Bayer agreed to sell its animal-health business for $7.6bn. The German drugs and chemicals group recently sold its Coppertone sun-cream unit and Dr Scholl’s foot-care division, bringing in more cash. Bayer faces a host of legal claims that its Roundup weedkiller, which it inherited when it took over Monsanto, causes cancer.

They’re over here for the beer
The weakness of the pound, which lowers the cost of buying British assets to overseas investors, was reportedly one of the factors behind an offer from CK Asset Holdings, a property investment firm based in Hong Kong, for Greene King, a pub chain. The deal is worth £4.6bn ($5.6bn). Founded in 1799, Greene King operates around 2,700 pubs, which CK Asset believes will continue to form a central part of British culture long after Brexit. Cheers to that.

Giuseppe Conte, Italy’s prime minister, resigned after Matteo Salvini, the leader of the Northern League party, withdrew his support for the coalition government. The coalition’s other party, the Five Star Movement, must now try to form a new government. If that fails, Italy may face a general election.

An Italian prosecutor ordered a ship carrying around 80 illegal migrants to dock after some of the passengers jumped into the sea. The ship, operated by a Spanish charity, had been held off the Italian coast for three weeks because Mr Salvini, who is also Italy’s interior minister, refused it entry to a port.

International radiation monitors confirmed they had detected a recent accident near the Russian port of Arkhangelsk, believed to involve a nuclear-powered cruise missile. Separately, and despite worries about safety, Russia launched the world’s first floating nuclear-power plant, which will power its eastern Arctic region.

Poland’s deputy justice minister resigned amid claims that he had aided a smear campaign against judges deemed insufficiently loyal to the ruling Law and Justice party. The EU has launched legal proceedings against Poland for interfering with the independence of the judiciary.

Boris Johnson, Britain’s new prime minister, wrote to Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, to urge that the Irish “backstop”, a means of avoiding a hard border with Ireland post- Brexit, be removed from Britain’s withdrawal agreement with the EU. Mr Tusk’s response was negative. Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, suggested that Mr Johnson had 30 days to come up with an alternative. Emmanuel Macron, the French president, insisted that the backstop is not open to renegotiation.

Exit, stage left?
In a televised speech, Nicolás Maduro, the president of Venezuela, confirmed that with his permission senior aides have been holding discussions with American officials for months. That stoked speculation that America might be discussing a deal to remove Mr Maduro, whose socialist policies have ruined Venezuela. The UN has reported that 20% of the population is malnourished.

Argentina’s finance minister resigned in the wake of the market turmoil that followed a triumphal showing by the populist-Peronist presidential ticket in a pre-election vote. The IMF held talks with the government about a $57bn bail-out package, which could be in jeopardy if the populists win October’s actual election.

São Paulo was shrouded in smog caused by fires raging in the Amazon rainforest 2,700km away. Data from Brazil’s national space centre have shown an 84% rise in the number of fires in the Amazon this year compared with last. Without evidence, Jair Bolsonaro, Brazil’s president, accused green groups of lighting the fires to make him look bad.

Fingers crossed
The junta in Sudan signed a power-sharing deal with opposition leaders that could pave the way for civilian rule. A transitional government is to run things until elections are held in 2022. Some worry that the generals, who unlike the civilians have lots of guns and money, will spoil the deal. Sudan’s former dictator, Omar al-Bashir, appeared in a courtroom in Khartoum, where he is on trial for corruption.

Nigeria marked the third year without a documented case of polio, which cripples children. When it is certified as free of the virus, the whole of Africa will be considered polio-free. Only Pakistan and Afghanistan still harbour the disease.

Gibraltar released an Iranian tanker that had been detained on suspicion of shipping oil to Syria in violation of European sanctions. America threatened sanctions on any country that helps the ship. Greece, its stated destination, said it would not assist the vessel.

Dozens of civilians were killed in a Russian-backed offensive by the Syrian government against the last big rebel stronghold. Government soldiers moved into the town of Khan Sheikhoun, which lies on an important supply route and has been under attack since April. Turkey, which backs some of the rebels, said one of its convoys was hit.

Donald Trump said he would probably release his plan for peace between Israel and the Palestinians after the Israeli election on September17th.

The killing machine
Islamic State claimed responsibility for a bomb at a wedding in Kabul. At least 80 people died; it was the worst attack in the Afghan capital since January 2018. IS was not represented at America’s peace talks with the Taliban; a deal under which most American troops will leave Afghanistan is said to be close.

A policeman and a suspected militant were killed in a gunfight in Indian-administered Kashmir, the first reported deaths since the government recently ended the region’s decades-old special status.

India’s Chandrayaan-2 spacecraft began its orbit of the Moon. The country’s space agency said it will touch down on September 7th, becoming the first-ever mission to land at the Moon’s south pole.

Flexing its military muscle
America’s test of a medium-range cruise missile elicited angry responses from China and Russia. The test was conducted just weeks after America officially left the Intermediate- Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, claiming that Russia was not sticking to the rules.

Some Democrats renewed their call to boycott Israel after two American congresswomen were barred from entering the country because they support sanctions against Israel.

How serious was Donald Trump when he said he wanted America to buy Greenland? The president appeared to be joking when he posted a picture on Twitter of a golden Trump skyscraper imposed on the Danish territory’s landscape. But then he cancelled a state visit to Denmark because, he said, the prime minister had no interest in discussing the purchase and had been “nasty” to him.

Sentence:
SoftBankwas reported to be planning to lend staff up to $20bn so that they can buy stakes in Vision Fund 2.
据报道，SoftBank.com计划向员工提供至多200亿美元贷款，使他们能够购买Vision Fund 2的股份。

That would come on top of the $38bn that the Japanese conglomerate is itself ploughing into the venture-capital project, raising questions about SoftBank’s exposure to potentially risky tech startups.
此前，这家日本企业集团正投入380亿美元进行风险投资，这引发了外界对软银在潜在高风险科技初创企业中的风险敞口的质疑。

A long stretch of cost-cutting and the sale of its shale-gas business boosted the fortunes of BHP. 
长期的成本削减和页岩气业务的出售增加了必和必拓的财富。

The mining company reported underlying income of $9.1bn for the 12 months ending June, its best annual profit in five years, and returned a record dividend to shareholders.
这家矿业公司公布，在截至6月的12个月里，其基本收入为91亿美元，为5年来最高年度利润，并向股东返还了创纪录的股息。

Although demand for BHP’s iron ore, copper and coal is still strong in China, it flagged trade tensions as a potential threat to business.
尽管中国对必和必拓铁矿石、铜和煤炭的需求依然强劲，但该公司表示，贸易紧张局势对企业构成潜在威胁。

The weakness of the pound, which lowers the cost of buying British assets to overseas investors, was reportedly one of the factors behind an offer from CK Asset Holdings, a property investment firm based in Hong Kong, for Greene King, a pub chain.The deal is worth £4.6bn ($5.6bn).
英镑疲软降低了海外投资者购买英国资产的成本，据报道，这是香港房地产投资公司CK Asset Holdings向连锁酒吧Greene King发出收购要约的原因之一。这笔交易价值46亿英镑(56亿美元)。

Founded in 1799, Greene King operates around 2,700 pubs, which CK Asset believes will continue to form a central part of British culture long after Brexit.
格林•金于1799年创立，经营着2700家左右的酒吧，CK Asset认为，在英国退欧很久之后，这些酒吧将继续成为英国文化的核心部分。

An Italian prosecutor ordered a ship carrying around 80 illegal migrants to dock after some of the passengers jumped into the sea.
一名意大利检察官下令一艘载有大约80名非法移民的船只靠岸，此前一些乘客跳入大海。

Separately, and despite worries about safety, Russia launched the world’s first floating nuclear-power plant, which will power its eastern Arctic region.
另外，尽管担心安全问题，俄罗斯还是建造了世界上第一座浮动核电站，为其东部北极地区提供电力。

Poland’s deputy justice minister resigned amid claims that he had aided a smear campaign against judges deemed insufficiently loyal to the ruling Law and Justice party.
波兰司法部副部长辞职，原因是有人指控他协助对被认为对执政党法律与正义党不够忠诚的法官进行诽谤。

The eu has launched legal proceedings against Poland for interfering with the independence of the judiciary.
欧盟对波兰干涉司法独立提起法律诉讼。

Dozens of civilians were killed in a Russian-backed offensive by the Syrian government against the last big rebel stronghold.
数十名平民在俄罗斯支持下的叙利亚政府对叛军最后一个重要据点的进攻中丧生。

Government soldiers moved into the town of Khan Sheikhoun, which lies on an important supply route and has been under attack since April.
政府军进入Khan Sheikhoun镇，该镇位于一条重要的补给线上，自4月份以来一直受到攻击。

Turkey, which backs some of the rebels, said one of its convoys was hit.
支持部分叛军的土耳其表示，其一支护卫队被击中。

Some Democrats renewed their call to boycott Israel after two American congresswomen were barred from entering the country because they support sanctions against Israel.
在两名美国国会女议员因支持制裁以色列而被禁止进入以色列后，一些民主党人再次呼吁抵制以色列。