How to beat Bezos 

A new generation of online retailers takes on the giants of e-commerce

Delight Ogualu’s hair is straight, black and gloriously glossy. She made it herself. Mrs Ogualu and her husband run a business selling wigs, which are fashionable in Nigeria. At first buyers came to their small Lagos shop in person. Then they started selling their goods on Jumia, an ecommerce site, to customers across the country. Today about 60% of the Ogualus’ sales are made online.

Around the emerging world, businesses like the Ogualus’ are finding a route to market through the internet. Global e-commerce has been growing for more than a decade. But companies like Jumia are having a moment. Investors are piling in again, spying opportunities to lock in newly connected consumers.

Jumia floated on the New York Stock Exchange in April. MercadoLibre, Latin America’s dominant marketplace from Argentina, which listed in New York 12 years ago, has seen its share price more than double since the start of 2019; PayPal has just invested $750m in the company. Shares in Sea, an online conglomerate which listed in New York in 2017, have tripled in value this year. In March it raised $1.5bn to fund the growth of its e-commerce arm, Shopee. Last year Walmart paid $16bn for control of Flipkart, an Indian firm. Money is pouring into Russian e-commerce, where a “sprint” is on for control of the $18bn market, says Fedor Virin of Data Insight, a research firm. Last year Alibaba, China’s online titan, teamed up with Mail.ru, a Russian internet firm. Sberbank, a big Russian state-controlled lender, launched an e-commerce joint-venture with Yandex, another local company. Both are chasing Ozon, Russia’s biggest generalist online retailer.

Such companies—call them baby Amazons— are following the path charted by America’s e-commerce colossus. They have a way to go. After stripping out Amazon’s mature north American business, some $277bn of goods changed hands on its platform last year, compared with perhaps $30bn for the biggest emerging-world firms. At around $65bn, their combined value is dwarfed by Amazon’s $949bn (though its cloud-computing arm, AWS, may account for half of that). And their revenues, some $6bn all told, are a tenth of the American firm’s.

But whereas Amazon’s international e-commerce sales grew by a comparatively measly 12% year on year in the second quarter, the upstarts’ sales are rising by high double digits or more, as the emerging world embraces the virtual one. Mercado- Libre’s swelled by 94% in its most recent quarter. Shopee’s ballooned by 342%. Small wonder investors are giddy.

Although all these firms no doubt want to be like the American paragon when they grow up, they are going about it differently than it did. Where Amazon’s growth piggy backed on the US Postal Service and credit card networks, they had to build their own, or do without. This limited their early growth. With better infrastructure now in place, and potential customers flocking online, they eye a new era. “The opportunity in the next 20 years is much bigger than the last 20 years,” enthuses Sean Summers, MercadoLibre’s chief marketing officer.

Sentence:
Delight ogualu’s hair is straight, black and gloriously glossy.She made it herself.
令人高兴的是，奥瓜鲁的头发是直的，黑色的，非常有光泽。她自己做的。

Mrs Ogualu and her husband run a business selling wigs, which are fashionable in Nigeria.
奥瓜鲁夫人和她的丈夫经营着一家销售假发的公司，假发在尼日利亚很流行。

At first buyers came to their small Lagos shop in person.
起初，买家亲自来到他们在拉各斯的小店。

Then they started selling their goods on Jumia, an ecommerce site, to customers across the country.
然后，他们开始在电子商务网站Jumia上向全国各地的客户销售商品。

Today about 60% of the Ogualus’ sales are made online.
如今，Ogualus约60%的销售是在网上完成的。

Such companies—call them baby Amazons— are following the path charted by America’s e-commerce colossus.
这些被称为“亚马逊宝贝”的公司正沿着美国电子商务巨头的道路前进。