1. The impasse concerns the “rules of origin” that must be satisfied if a car is to qualify for tariff-free export within the trade bloc. 

   impasse：僵局，死路

   rules of origin：原产地规则

   

2. The huge movement of Chinese people round the world has been a boon for other countries. Producers of luxury goods, for example, would be lost without Chinese travellers. 

   boon：恩惠，福利，利益

   

3. Clues about the workings of ancient economies have turned up in Greenland. When Romans and other peoples smelted silver to make coins, lead fumes were released into the air and carried to Greenland, where they became trapped in the ice. 

   workings of ancient economies：古代经济运行

   smelt ：熔炼，冶炼，精炼

   lead：铅

   

4. What went wrong for liberals? Is classical liberalism—a belief in limited government and individual rights—nerdy and passive? And are there any great liberal thinkers today? 

   nerdy：书呆子式的

   

5. But Mr Trump stopped short of keeping his populist pledges, such as allowing Americans to import prescriptions from other countries. 

   stop short of：决定不做某事；未到达；缺乏 

   

6. Taking many in his administration by surprise, Mr Trump tweeted that he was working to overturn a ban on American chip companies from selling to ZTE, a Chinese maker of telecoms equipment, because of the job losses it entailed in China. 

   overturn：推翻，倾覆，破坏

   entail：使需要，必需，引起

   

7. The Commerce Department imposed the ban on ZTE for contravening a settlement over selling products to Iran and North Korea. 

   contraven：抵触，违反，否认

   

8. Mr Trump said his remarks were made in the context of negotiating with China to avoid a trade war.

   in the context of：在...情况下，在...背景下

   

9. America claimed victory after the World Trade Organisation upheld a decision that the European Union wrongly provided subsidies to Airbus. 

   uphold：支持

   

10. America’s trade representative said that unless the EU stopped “breaking the rules” America would “have to move forward with countermeasures on EU products”. 

    countermeasure：反制措施，对策，对抗措施

    

11. Airbus retorted that 94% of Boeing’s original claims had been dismissed by the WTO.

    retort：反驳，顶嘴，回嘴

    

12. During Mr Colao’s tenure the world’s second-biggest wireless provider sold its minority stake in Verizon Wireless, a deal which fetched $130bn, $84bn of which was returned to shareholders. 

    tenure：任期；授予...终身职位

    

13. Nick Read, the company’s chief financial officer, steps up to the top job.

    step up to：走近，接近