1. Non-compete agreements are startlingly common in America, even for workers on low pay.

   Non-compete：竞业禁止

   

2. A couple of years later the firm gave her an ultimatum: sign a “non-compete” agreement within 30 days or wave goodbye. 

   ultimatum：最后通牒，最后结论

   

3. Non-compete agreements are widely used to stop ex-employees walking out of the door with valuable know-how, or poaching suppliers and customers when they move jobs. 

   poach：偷猎，窃取，侵犯，挖走

   

4. Sometimes a great deal of money and intellectual property is at stake. 

   at stake：处于危险中

   

5. A report in 2016 by the Treasury noted that less than half the workers covered by non-competes reported having access to trade secrets. They are sometimes used indiscriminately. 

   indiscriminately：不加区别地，不加选择地，任意地

   

6. It stopped using them in 2016 at the behest of the New York attorney-general’s office, which said that non-compete agreements “limit mobility and opportunity for vulnerable workers and bully them into staying with the threat of being sued”. 

   at the behest of ：在...的命令下

   bully：欺侮 ，威吓

   

7. Bills in Massachusetts and New Jersey would bar non-competes for workers earning less than a certain amount, as well as limiting their duration and entitling ex-employees to compensation during the non-compete period.

   薪水低于一定数额的工人不允许与之签订竞业协议

   

8. This may be because the agreements make it harder to switch jobs—one of the main occasions when a worker’s pay rises. 

   occasion：场合，场景

   

9. Silicon Valley became a technology hub, says AnnaLee Saxenian of the University of California, Berkeley, partly because of California’s long-standing hostility to non-competes, which has facilitated the flow of ideas and made it easier to start new firms.

   facilitate：促进，帮助，使容易

   

10. Non-competes may benefit some employers by making it cheaper and easier to keep workers—but at the cost of leaving others to fish in a shallower talent pool. 

    shallow：浅的，肤浅的

    

11. This incremental approach will not necessarily leave Toyota in the dust. 

    incremental approach：循序渐进方式    incremental backup：增量备份

    leave...in the dust：使...望尘莫及

