1. Results announced on Saturday showed that Ireland voted decisively in favour of a referendum proposal to scrap its Eighth Amendment, a constitutional ban on abortion, with 66.4% of voters supporting repeal—far exceeding even the most optimistic expectations. The referendum result underlines the shrinking influence, following a series of abuse scandals, of the Irish Roman Catholic church, which pushed for the 1983 ban.

   scrap：废弃

   repeal：废除，撤销，废止

   underline：强调，预告

   shrinking：收缩的

   

2. He wrote that the losers from globalisation need to be compensated to address increases in inequality. 

   address increases in inequality：处理不平等加剧

   

3. The EU promises to protect European companies doing business in Iran using “blocking sanctions”, which levy fines against anyone who helps impose sanctions and reimburse firms for damages. But many big companies will steer clear of Iran anyway to avoid the risk. 

   reimburse：偿还，赔偿

   steer clear of：避开，绕开

   

4. With the world’s appetite for emerging-market debt on the wane, Mr Martinez will need to play a blinder to get Ecuador’s economy back on course. 

   on the wane：逐渐衰落

   play a blinder：盲人摸象

   back on course：重回轨道

   

5. A spate of daring cash-in-transit heists have drawn attention to the country’s stubbornly high crime rate. In one recent robbery, caught on video, a gang laid siege to armoured vehicles on a main road in broad daylight, using explosives to reach stacks of cash.

   heist：抢劫，抢夺

   stubbornly：顽固地，倔强地

   lay siege to：包围，围攻

   in broad daylight：大白天，公开的

   

6. But the rot goes deep. Criminal syndicates, blamed for many high-profile robberies, are thought to have inside information from police and security guards. Between rooting out corruption and fighting rampant crime, Mr Ramaphosa has his hands full. 

   Criminal syndicate：黑社会

   high-profile：备受瞩目

   root out：根除，连根拔起

   rampant：猖獗的，蔓延的

   have one's hands full：忙的不可开交

   

7. But divisions among Mr Rajoy’s opponents mean his fate is far from sealed.

   division：分歧

   seal：封印

   

8. Mr Rajoy’s rivals will spend the coming days squabbling over the best way to unseat him. He must hope they don’t reach a consensus.

   squabble over：争论

   unseat：罢免，剥夺...的席位，使失去资格

   reach a consensus：达成共识

   

9. Ethnic tension in Syria’s east dates back decades, a legacy of the divide-and-rule tactics used by President Bashar al-Assad and his father before him in the country’s hinterlands. 

   divide-and-rule：分而治之