1.In a diplomatic coup for the Israeli right, America opened a new embassy in Jerusalem today, after Donald Trump defied decades of precedent and recognised the contested city as Israel’s capital.

coup：政变

defy：违抗

precedent：先例，前例

contested：争议，争论



2.Among her signature achievements were the launch of Sure Start centres, which provide child care to parents in deprived areas, and the bringing of the 2012 Olympics to London. 

signature achievements :标志性的功绩



3.Her knack for working across political divides stemmed from a trait rare in the upper echelons of politics: she was fantastically nice.

knack：诀窍，本领

political divides：政治分歧

stem from：起源于

echelon：梯次编队，阶层

fantastically：难以置信地，奇特地



4.The government was more welcoming to those who tried to assist in the relief efforts, resulting in a change of attitude towards working with civil society .

relief efforts：救灾工作

civil society：公民社会



5.One is his interest in the Singularity. Its broad idea is that technological progress will continue to accelerate exponentially to the point where it escapes human control. 

Singularity：奇点

broad：大概的

exponentially ：以指数方式



6.For pessimists, this leads to the extermination of mankind by artificial intelligence. Optimists prefer to conjure up genetically modified humans uploading their minds into a silicon utopia.

extermination：消灭，根绝

conjure up：用魔法召唤，提出，想象



7.Nearly all the embassy’s staff and administrative functions will remain in Tel Aviv for years to come. Other governments, including members of the European Union, are not expected to follow suit, besides a tiny handful. 

follow suit：跟着做，学样

besides a tiny handful：除了一小撮



8.Less than two years ago the Indian market for fast-moving consumer goods was being clobbered by poor monsoons, the withdrawal of high-denomination banknotes and a new goods-and-services tax. 

fast-moving consumer goods：快速消费品

clobber：击倒，痛打，使遭受沉重损失

monsoon：季风；（印度等地的）雨季；季候风 

withdrawal： 撤退，收回；提款；取消；退股 

denomination：面额



9.Their predictions will be tested this week as a raft of FMCG firms, including Hindustan Unilever, announce results. 

a raft of：大量，许多



10.These keep behemoths at bay by extending credit to customers, arranging free home deliveries (sometimes by bullock cart, in inaccessible terrain) and offering auxiliary services like mobile-phone charging. 

keep at bay：不使逼近，牵制

terrain：地域，地带

auxiliary：辅助的，附加的