1.By appealing to the justices’ sense of fairness and presenting them with sympathetic male and female plaintiffs, she was able to guarantee strong protections against gender discrimination, thereby laying the foundation for civil rights for LGBT Americans .

appeal：呼吁，上诉，诉诸

plaintiff：原告

LGBT：同性恋、双性恋及变性者（Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender） 



2.Accusations of cultural appropriation, such as when a teenager wears a Chinese-inspired dress to a school prom or “non-Mexican individuals” celebrate Cinco de Mayo, are guaranteed to stir up Twitter outrage. 

appropriation：the act of taking control of something without asking permission

擅用；私占



3.The term misunderstands the process by which all cultures form and progress: through creolisation and intermixing.

creolization：种族混合



4.The World Trade Organisation is often accused of being slow when it comes to adjudicating trade disputes.

adjudicate：裁定，宣判



5.Today is the deadline for it to publish a final judgment on whether the European Union has complied with an earlier ruling which found that Airbus used the benefit of state loans to finance new aircraft programmes too cheaply. 

finance：负担经费，供给...经费；筹措资金



6.The WTO is expected to lean towards ruling in Boeing’s favour.

lean towards：倾向，偏向

预计世贸组织将倾向于对波音有利。



7.Airbus hopes that a countersuit, claiming that America has unfairly subsidised Boeing, will inflict equivalent damage. 

inflict：造成，使遭受（损伤、痛苦等）

equivalent：等价的；等价物



8.In any case the biggest losers from a tariff war on civil jets will be both Airbus and Boeing. 

 civil jets ：民用飞机



9.Hundreds of millions of Muslims across the world are about to begin the month-long period of fasting; it is regarded as the month when Muhammad the Prophet received the divine revelation that became the Koran.

fasting：禁食，斋戒

the Prophet：先知

divine：神圣的，非凡的，天赐的，极好的



10.In addition to abstaining during daylight hours from food, drink, sex and smoking, many believers will add special readings of the Koran to their daily routine, and collect money and food for the poor. 

In addition to：除...以外

abstain ：戒除，戒绝



11.Fasting—which along with prayer, charity, pilgrimage and beliefs is one of the five pillars of the Islamic faith—promises to be especially tough in one of the world’s remotest Muslim communities. 

pilgrimage：漫游，朝圣之行

pillar：柱子，栋梁



12.By the time Ramadan ends, that latitude will be enjoying more than 18 daily hours of sunshine. 

Ramadan：斋月

