1. 2018 UEFA Champions League final

   Gareth Bale scored one of the great Champions League goals against Liverpool in Kiev in echoes of Zinedine Zidane's strike in the 2002 European Cup final. 

   Zinedine Yazid Zidane O.L.H., A.O.M.N. (French pronunciation: [zinedin zidan], born 23 June 1972), nicknamed "Zizou", is a French retired professional footballer and current manager of Real Madrid. He played as an attacking midfielder for the France national team, Cannes, Bordeaux, Juventus and Real Madrid. An elite playmaker, renowned for his elegance, vision, ball control and technique, Zidane was named the best European footballer of the past 50 years in the UEFA Golden Jubilee Poll in 2004. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest players of all time. In addition to his success as a player, Zidane is the only manager in the history of football to win three consecutive UEFA Champions League titles.

   Gareth Bale has been named as the UEFA Champions League final man of the match after coming on to score twice for Real Madrid.

   Gareth Frank Bale is a Welsh professional footballer who plays as a winger for Spanish club Real Madrid and the Wales national team. Renowned for his ball striking from distance, swerving free kicks, and his ability to get past defenders with pace, Bale has received plaudits from his peers, who have described him as a footballer with "tremendous speed, great crossing ability, a great left foot and exceptional physical qualities".

   

2. Hence the second plank of China’s strategy: winning foreign friends, even if not the Americans. China still needs foreign technology, so is doing what it can to stop antagonism from coalescing.

   plank：支柱，支架

   antagonism：对抗，敌对

   coalesce：联合，合并

   As the number of moisture droplets increases, they begin to coalesce into small rivulets of fluid.
    当水滴数量增加，它们会汇集成细流。
   His sporting and political interests coalesced admirably in his writing about climbing. 
    他对运动和政治的兴趣,很了不起地共同体现在他关于攀岩运动的写作中。

   

3. These steps alone will not disarm critics. Even with full control of their Chinese operations, foreign companies will encounter regulatory hurdles, written and unwritten. Foreign governments will continue to bristle as well-funded Chinese companies buy up technology. The rivalry that has brought China and America to the brink of a trade war will not abate. 

   disarm：解除武装，缓和

   hurdle：障碍，栏，跳栏

   abate：减少，减弱，减轻

   

4. But so long as China can keep enough foreign businesses and governments on side for enough of the time, it will be able to carve out space for its economic rise.

   carve out：开创

   

5. AMERICAN free enterprise has overcome many daunting challenges in its history. Now it faces a new one: proving to a grumpy public and a sceptical world that the answer to American capitalism’s problems lies not in restraining business, but in liberating it. The unshackling comes courtesy of a Republican president and Congress. Its effects on investment for long-term growth and on increasing levels of competition, productivity and pay—the effects that would make America a better place for all—are still unfolding. 

   daunting：使人畏缩的，使人气馁的，使人怯步的

   unshackle：除去...的镣铐，释放

   courtesy of：经由...提供，蒙...好意

   still unfolding：仍在继续

   

6. The technology sector is dominating investment to an unprecedented degree.

   unprecedented：空前的

   

7. Mostly in concert, Congress and the White House prioritised tax cuts, deregulation, “fair trade”, infrastructure and giving bosses access to Mr Trump, who imagines himself as the nation’s chairman, banging heads together as appropriate. 

   in concert：一致，齐声

   banging heads：头脑风暴，集思广益

   

8. While deficit-hawks look on in disgust and tax experts grumble about fine print which is an utter mess, bosses are ecstatic. 

   grumble about：抱怨

   fine print：契约中难懂的条文，极小的字体

   ecstatic：狂喜的，入迷的

   

9. One barometer is Kansas City Southern, a railway company that brings cars and parts across the Mexican border. After a slump in late 2016 its share price has recovered; its executives say there is little sign of big firms rejigging supply chains. 

   barometer：气压计，晴雨表，显示变化的事物

   rejig：重新安排，调整

   

10. At first glance the good newsappears broadly based, with almost two-thirds of the top 500 firms boosting their investment in the last quarter. Dig deeper, however, and you see that business investing has been transformed. Ten years ago the five largest spenders were old-economy stalwarts: AT&T, Chevron, ExxonMobil, General Electric and Verizon (see chart 3). Now the top five are Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Intel and Microsoft. 

    newsappear：消息

    stalwart：坚定分子

    

11. Tech firms don’t just write code and hoard the proceeds.

    hoard：贮藏

    proceed：收益

    

12. What’s more, tech firms are also investing on behalf of ordinary companies by building cloud-computing capacity that is increasingly replacing other firms’ in-house IT investments.

    on behalf of：代表，为了

    

13. Various industries are being forced to change as digital competitors emerge, distribution and marketing shift online and price wars loom. Some companies will struggle. One way to judge how much there is to fight over is to look at firms which investors are worried about—those with market values at a low multiple of earnings, or that have seen their valuations drop a lot. Big food companies, asset managers, advertising agencies, broadcasters, drug distributors, telecoms firms and airlines fit this description.

    at a low multiple of earnings ：较低的市盈率

    

14. It is an apt metaphor for a firm hovering between fulfilling its promise and succumbing to financial woes.

    succumb：屈服，被压垮

    

15. It is under pressure to find a new hit product, is developing autonomous technology and has pockets deep enough to buy Tesla even if the share price takes less of a tumble than many expect.

    pockets deep enough：足够财力