1. Donald Trump initially hailed the outcome, only to declare himself dissatisfied after political allies accused him of capitulating to China. One sticking-point remains the penalties imposed on ZTE, a Chinese maker of telecoms equipment. 

   capitulate：屈服，屈从，投降

   

2. But as it loosens up in some areas, it is also cracking down on dissent. 

   dissent：异议

   

3. The next steps will depend to a worrying extent on Mr Trump’s whims. 

   whim：奇想，心血来潮，一时的兴致

   

4. Or he may conclude that Xdd has played him for a fool and fire off a petulant tweet, nudging the two countries’ relationship back into crisis and reigniting global fears of a full-blown trade conflict.

   petulant：任性的，暴躁的

   nudge：轻推，刺激

   reignit：再次点燃，重新激起

   

5. It may be that Mr Trump does want to ease tensions with China, but only as a temporary ruse to enlist Mr Xi’s support for talks due to be held on June 12th between Mr Trump and Kim Jong Un, North Korea’s dictator.

   ruse：策略，计策

   enlist：征募，谋取...的赞助或帮助

   

6. Once that event is over (if it actually takes place), Mr Trump could again turn up the heat on China. 

   heat：高温，压力     turn up the heat：施加压力

   

7. Trade is one of the few issues on which he is close to consistent. 

   consistent：始终如一的，一致的

   

8. Impervious to economic logic, Mr Trump thinks that America loses when it imports more than it exports. China accounts for about three-fifths of America’s trade deficit.

   Impervious：不受影响的，无动于衷的

   

9. And China is not merely contending with a truculent Mr Trump and his more hawkish economic advisers. A broad swathe of American opinion has turned against it. 

   contend with：竞争，斗争

   truculent：好斗的，野蛮的

   swathe：带子，绷带，包装品    A broad swathe of American opinion：一大批美国人的意见

   

10. State media have been even more colourful than Mr Mei. “Anyone who tries to hinder China’s emergence is like a mantis trying to stop a car, or an ant trying to shake a tree, and will pay a bitter price in the end,” said the Communist Party’s mouthpiece, the People’s Daily. 

    colourful：鲜艳的；生动的

    hinder：阻碍，打扰

    China’s emergence：中国崛起

    mantis：螳螂

    

11. They would throw sand in the gears of Chinese commerce. 

    gear：齿轮

    It’s a good habit to take the car *out of gear* while you’re at a stoplight. 

    等红灯时换空挡的习惯很好。 

    During this period, Japan’s export industries were in *top gear* (= *were as active as they could be* ). 

    在这个时期，日本的出口工业如日中天。

    The Republican’s propaganda machine moved into *high gear*. 

    共和党的宣传机器开足了马力。

    United stepped up a gear in the second half. 

    联队在下半场加强了拼抢。

     

12. The reviews will only get tougher, says Scott Kennedy of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, an American think-tank. Previously CFIUS focused on the purchase of controlling stakes. New legislation will expand its oversight to any investment, however small, that might help a “country of special concern” (read: China) catch up with America’s technology. 

    review：检阅，复审

    controlling stake：控股权

    

13. Whatever he is pondering, China has learned a lesson about how tech superiority gives America clout. 

    superiority：优越，优势

    

14. Chinese officials frankly admit that their technology is far from the global leading edge. The Made in China 2025 plan can be read as a confession of backwardness.  China’s dream of becoming a semiconductor powerhouse stirs fear abroad.

    confession：忏悔，告解，供认

    backwardness：落后

    stirs fear：引发担忧

    

15. Still more alarming for China is the way that America can weaponise its financial system.

    weaponise：把...改装成武器

    

16. To reduce its reliance on the dollar, China wants to make the yuan a global currency. But that would require it to open its financial system to foreigners much more widely than it is now willing to do.

    reliance：依赖

    

17. China’s final area of vulnerability, and potentially its biggest, is to a united international front. Though a conflict with America would be bad, China could eventually work round it. 

    a united international front：统一的国际阵线

    work round：解决

    

18. It would be far worse for China if other countries were also to turn against it. Governments from Australia to Germany have already started objecting to Chinese investments on security grounds, seemingly emboldened by Mr Trump. 

    embolden：使大胆，鼓励

    

19. Mr Trump has a tendency to alienate his country’s usual friends. 

    alienate：使疏远，离间

    

20. The government has form in whipping up consumer boycotts, as South Korean retailers and Japanese carmakers can attest.

    whip up：激起，鞭打

    boycott：联合抵制，拒绝参加

    

21. If America were to deploy sanctions such as those imposed on ZTE more widely, it would find that China can escalate matters, too. 

    escalate：逐步增强，逐步升高    escalate matters：使事态升级

    

22. The potential for asset seizures would keep executives up at night.

    seizure：夺取，没收

    

23. China could further fan the flames by frustrating Mr Trump’s efforts to bring North Korea to heel, or by flexing muscle against Taiwan or in the South China Sea.

    fan the flames：煽风点火

    frustrate：挫败，阻挠

    bring North Korea to heel：使朝鲜就范

    flex your muscles:  to show your ability to do something, especially your skill or power

    展示自己的才能〔尤指技艺或力量〕

    The role will allow her to flex her acting muscles. 

    这个角色使她能够施展自己的表演才能。

    

24. Given America’s entanglement with China, an all-out trade war would be sheer folly.  But even if one is avoided, prolonged strategic competition remains likely.

    entanglement：纠缠，牵连

    all-out：全部的，毫无保留的

    prolonged：旷日持久的

    

25. China’s integration with the global economy cannot be undone; there is no real way to cut it off as America once did to the Soviet Union. But China’s ascent could get much bumpier. 

    ascent：上升，上坡路

    bumpy：颠簸的，崎岖不平的

    

26. China’s options for countering such amorphous efforts are not straightforward.

    amorphous：无定型的

    

27. Advisers have highlighted the risk of going too far to placate foreigners.

    placate：抚慰，怀柔，使和解

