1. The latest comes from HoweyCoin, which apparently harnesses the revolutionary power of blockchains and crypto-currencies to upend the travel industry. 

   harness：治理，驾驭，利用

   upend：颠倒

   

2. The website is slick, replete with images of sun-kissed beaches, hunks in sports cars and the implicit promise of getting rich, quick.

   slick：华而不实的

   replete with：充满

   sun-kissed：受阳光照射的

   

3. In the first quarter of 2018 China ran a current-account deficit, its first since joining the World Trade Organisation in 2001. Just as its massive surpluses of yore had big consequences for the global economy, so does this swing in the opposite direction.

   current-account deficit：经常账户赤字

   massive surpluses：巨额贸易顺差

   of yore：很久以前

   

4. China still exports many more goods than it imports, to the tune of nearly $500bn annually.

   to the tune of of：达到...数量；价格达...；共计

   

5. To placate President Donald Trump, China will try to import more from America and pay more for foreign intellectual property (IP).

   placate：抚慰，怀柔，使和解

   

6. Should its external liabilities—that is, money it owes the rest of the world—increase rapidly, that might signal greater financial vulnerability. But as long as the increase is moderate, it could actually help China by boosting the yuan’s global profile. 

   global profile：国际形象

   

7. But technically, the conditions would be ripe for the yuan’s emergence as a more credible rival to the dollar. 

   be ripe for：适于...的时机成熟

   

8. America might find itself pining for the days when the Chinese currency was undervalued. 

   pine for：渴望，怀念

9. Steering clear of American jurisdiction is not quite the same as escaping American power. 

10. steer：驾驶，掌舵，控制

11. Life insurers must somehow reinvent themselves without losing sight of their core purpose: providing a way for their customers to plan for a dignified old age without overburdening the state. 

12. reinvent：重新使用，彻底改造

13. overburden：使负但过重

14. 