1. But Hirokazu Kore-Eda’s drama is a deserving winner. “Shoplifters” is another of his low-key, acutely observed, ultimately devastating studies of contemporary Japanese life.

   devastate：毁灭，破坏

   contemporary：当代的，同时代的

   

2. Family-planning clinics, which provide contraception, are good at that. In the past four decades they have helped slash America’s abortion rate.

   contraception：避孕

   slash：严厉批评

   

3. Yet President Donald Trump is this week expected to announce a new rule that would curb abortions by cutting funding to some clinics. This is obviously self-defeating.

   self-defeating：弄巧成拙的

   

4. When, then, will rosy “real” developing-world economies fall into line with rattled markets? 

   In other cases, eg, Argentina, market turmoil will soon halt economic momentum: to defend the peso, Argentina raised interest rates to a growth-sapping 40%.

   But Capital Economics, a research firm, points out that in countries such as Russia and Brazil, financial conditions have tightened little, despite currency-market wobbles.

   rattled：慌乱的

   turmoil：混乱，骚动

   wobble：使摇摆，使摇动

   

5. If inflation is contained and dollar-denominated debts are light, central banks can allow their currencies to fall, rather than raise interest rates and hurt growth. Better to let the exchange rate deteriorate so the real economy doesn’t have to. 

   deteriorate：恶化，变坏

   

6. The United Nations’ public-health body had dealt slowly and ineptly with the outbreak of the Ebola virus in west Africa in 2014, reaffirming the view of many health experts that the 70-year-old outfit was no longer fit for purpose. 

   ineptly：不适当地，无能地

   outfit：机构

   

7. So far the WHO has acted more swiftly and ably than it did in 2014. But the outbreak is a reminder that the fate of the organisation will be determined not by grand talk but by action on the ground.

   action on the ground：实际行动

   

8. Shares, oil and the dollar rose after Steven Mnuchin said America was putting its trade war with China “on hold”.

   on hold：暂停，挂起

