1. Xerox called off an agreement that would have seen it merge with Fujifilm, with which it has a long-standing joint venture in Asia selling photocopiers. 

   called off：取消，关闭

   photocopier：复印机，影印机

   

2. Mr Erdogan’s distaste for high interest rates, which he recently described as the “mother and father of all evil”, has increased investors’ concerns about the capacity of Turkey’s central bank to rein in inflation and arrest the currency’s fall.

   rein in：控制，放慢，止住

   arrest：阻止

   

3. The loss was mostly a result of setting aside money to cover a fraud involving diamond firms that raised credit abroad using fake guarantees from PNB. 

   raised credit abroad：获得海外信贷

   

4. Groups helping gambling addicts had pressed for change, claiming punters could potentially lose £18,000 an hour because £100 can be wagered every 20 seconds at the machines. 

   press for：要求

   punter：赌博者

   wager：下赌注

   

5. The Open Society Foundations decided to close shop in Budapest, the birth place of George Soros, its founder, and move its Hungarian operations to Berlin. Mr Soros has been scapegoated by the nationalist Fidesz government.

   scapegoat：替罪羊；使成为...的替罪羊

   

6. Yet circumstances are also forcing the two leaders towards each other. 

   circumstance：环境，情势

   

7. The South African retailer, which owns furniture and homeware chains including Britain’s Poundland and Mattress Firm in America, is battling to stay afloat. More than 12,000 stores in 30 countries are at stake. 

   battle to stay afloat：努力维持运营，奋力求生

   at stake：处于险境

   

8. Facial-recognition software is still far from perfect. 

   Facial-recognition：人脸识别

   

9. The White House is unlikely to view the move with indifference. 

   indifference：漠不关心，不重视

   

10. In a report criticising global finance, Pope Francis singled out credit-default swaps, and their role in the 2007 financial crisis, for ethical disapproval. 

    single out：特别指出

    credit-default swaps：信用违约掉期

    

11. Calling the derivatives market a “ticking time bomb” the Holy See accused some practitioners of “gambling on the failure of others”. 

    derivatives market：衍生品市场

    the Holy See：罗马教廷

    

12. The head of the Catholic church often uses his pulpit to remonstrate with the industry. 

    pulpit：讲道坛

    remonstrate：责备，抗议，告诫