1.Private halls have sprung up as cash-strapped universities have outsourced to companies such as Unite.

spring up: 如雨后春笋般涌现，兴起

cash-strapped:缺乏现金的，没有足够资本的

outsourced:转包，外包

 

\2. Some have grown into publicly traded brands offering thousands of beds across the globe.

publicly traded brands:上市交易的品牌

 

\3. Some $16bn poured into the sector globally in 2016.

poured into:涌入

 

\4. The sector offers strong risk-adjusted returns, limited supply and stable demand, says Peter Ballon, who oversees the fund’s property investments.

risk-adjusted:风险调整

 

\5. Some of this is a punt on the global middle class. As families in developing countries, in particular India and China, have become richer, the appetite for English-language degrees has grown.

punt on：押注，投资

degree：学位

 

\6. Rising tuition fees in Britain seem counter-intuitively to make students willing to spend more on housing, since it is a smaller share of the total cost.

tuition fees:学费

counter-intuitively: 与我们的直觉相反的是，万万没想到

 

\7. Yields are higher than in other sorts of residential property. In America the average is 5.9% for student accommodation, compared with 5.6% for private residential rentals. And student accommodation has a valuable countercyclical quality. In recessions, people tend to go back to school.

countercyclical: 反周期的（与商业周期既定阶段发展方向相反的）

 

\8. Islam outlaws the payment of interest, the basis of conventional banking.

outlaw:使…失去法律保护

 

\9. BRIsyariah’s IPO will help tackle what the OJK says is the biggest obstacle to their development: a want of capital.

a want of capital:资本匮乏

 

\10. Indonesian regulation divides banks into four categories; the more tier-1 capital they have, the broader their range of permitted activities.

tier-1 capital:一级资本

 

\11. Lack of capital means fewer branches and dearer funding, which constrains Islamic banks to focus on retail rather than corporate customers.

constrain:制约，约束

 

12.Sharia banking is far from doomed to failure.

doom:注定

 

\13. A council of Islamic scholars established several years ago may help avoid disputes over whether products meet sharia standards.

council:委员会，理事会

 

\14. Lack of scale bedevils all small banks, not just Islamic ones.

bedevil:使痛苦，虐待，是苦恼

 

\15. He matches the returns and cost-income ratios of conventional banks. The UUSs’ non-performing loans are just 2.5% of the total, against 4.6% at stand-alone entities. Their return on assets averages 2.4%, versus 1.2%.

non-performing loans:不良贷款

 

\16. A UUS must be spun off once its assets are half those of its parent or in any event by 2023.

spin off:甩掉，剥离

in any event:无论如何，不管怎样

 

\17. Even handling a tenth of the many billions being splurged on roads, railways and so forth would double Islamic banks’ assets

splurge:挥霍

and so forth:等等

 

\18. It also envisages a special role for them in financial inclusion, microfinance and supporting small businesses.

envisage:展望，设想，想象

financial inclusion:普惠金融

microfinance：小微信贷，微型金融

small businesse：小微企业

 

\19. Conventional banks and Asia’s technology companies will also vie to serve them. Islamic banks have their work cut out.

vie:争，竞争

cut out:切断，删去

 

20.Overbond’s algorithms to estimate timing and pricing of new bonds shed light on an old-fashioned part of finance.

shed light on:阐明，使…清楚地显出，使…被充分理解

 

\21. A hefty fee will buy assistance in calibrating the size, structure and timing of a bond issue, as well as connections to lots of buyers.

hefty fee：高额费用

calibrate：

1)to check or slightly change an instrument or tool, so that it does something correctly

校准〔测量仪器〕的刻度

2)to mark an instrument or tool so that you can use it for measuring

标定〔测量仪器〕的刻度

同义词：adjust  update  coordinate

 

22.Once a bank has agreed to underwrite an issue, it bears the risk of failing to get a good price for the bonds. 
 underwrite:承销，包销

 

23.But the process is old-fashioned and inefficient (the head of bond origination at one American bank jokes that “not a lot has changed since 1933”), and the accuracy of the advice is hard to gauge.

the head of bond origination:债券发行主管

gauge:判定，测量

 

\24. Investment bankers responsible for bond issuance still operate largely by feel, calling up asset managers to get a sense of demand, rather than by crunching numbers.

crunch numbers: to do a lot of calculations in order to find an answer

The computer will crunch all the numbers to determine the final score.

 

\25. Rules against insider trading mean they cannot talk directly with their trader colleagues.

insider trading:内幕交易

 

\26. But so far, comparing primary and secondary markets has been difficult. By crunching a wide array of public data, Overbond seeks to provide a link between the two.

primary and secondary markets:一级市场和二级市场

 

\27. Its main offering is a set of machine-learning algorithms powered by neural networks, a type of artificial intelligence, that predict the timing and pricing of new bond issues.

timing：时机

 

\28. The service is already fully in place for the Canadian corporate-bond market, and partly so for the American one.

in place for：服务于

 

\29. The algorithms crunch through credit ratings and real-time data on secondary trading for a firm and its peers, among other things.

peer：同等的人，同行

 

\30. Investors can use a basic version of the service without charge, partly because the firm collects data from them that then feed into the algorithms.

feed into:提供原料

 

\31. There, issuance is much more fragmented. Around 40 banks are active in bond origination, and no firm has more than a 12.5% market share.

fragmented:市场分割的

 

\32. Bankers, perhaps unsurprisingly, proclaim themselves sceptical that something as sophisticated as bond origination could be pried from their grasp by a fintech challenger.

pry:撬开

grasp:掌握，理解

 

\33. In finance, as elsewhere, machines and humans may be more powerful together than either is alone.

联合比单独更强大