A new government was sworn in in Finland. All five of the parties in the new ruling coalition are led by women.

France’s prime minister unveiled details of the government’s plan for pension reforms, which put some of the toughest changes off into the future. But this may not be enough to halt a wave of strikes that have shut down most of the rail network, many schools and the Paris Métro.

Russia was banned from major sporting competitions for a period of four years, which will cover next year’s Olympics, after revelations that it had hacked and faked medical records dealing with doping. The ban contains significant loopholes, however.

 The prospect of Congress approving the United States- Mexico-Canada Agreement improved, after Democrats reached a deal with the White House to revise the trade deal. The reworked USMCA weakens intellectual-property protections for the drugs industry, which Democrats insist will lead to lower health-care costs, and beefs up workers’ rights, putting more onus on employers to enforce labour standards. The USMCA will eventually replace NAFTA.

Ain’t life a bitch
Still licking its wounds from its disastrous investment in WeWork, SoftBank was reportedly selling its 50% stake in Wag, a service that connects dog owners with people who will walk their pooch for them. Wag has struggled to compete against Rover, a rival. It has also been hounded by bad publicity about lost or dead dogs under its care.

A judge on the New York state Supreme Court cleared Exxon Mobil of fraud related to its accounting for climate-change regulations. New York’s attorney-general had sought to show that the oil company committed fraud by using two methods to estimate costs posed by possible climate policies. The ruling lowers the likelihood of similar litigation in other states.

Chevron said it would record impairments of more than $10bn in its fourth quarter. More than half of the write down comes from shale assets in the Appalachian region. An abundance of shale gas has depressed prices, which are at their lowest in 20 years.

America’s boundless production in shale energy has also kept down oil prices. In an agreement by which they hope to shore up prices, OPEC and Russia agreed to cut output by another 500,000 barrels a day, extending a strategy started in 2016. Saudi Arabia wanted deeper reductions, which were resisted by Russia.

Saudi Aramco’s share price surged when it began trading on the Riyadh stock exchange. Although just 1.5% of the state controlled oil company’s shares were sold, it raised $25.6bn in its IPO, the most ever. Aramco is now the world’s most valuable publicly listed company, hitting $2trn on December 12th. That is the value that Muhammad bin Salman, Saudi Arabia’s de facto leader, has decreed Aramco is worth, despite scepticism from global investors. Tranches of the shares are held by the Saudi elite, who have reportedly been pressed to trade the stock in order to reach the target.

Problems at an oilfield off the coast of Ghana were one factor that caused Tullow Oil to drastically reduce its production forecasts for the next few years. Its share price tanked by 70%, one of the worst falls on the FTSE 250 this decade.

Pacific Gas & Electric reached a $13.5bn settlement with the victims of wildfires that were sparked by its faulty equipment. That brings the total charges incurred by California’s biggest utility to $25.5bn. The settlement with victims could hasten PG&E’s exit from bankruptcy protection, though the deal must first be signed off by California’s governor.

German industrial production fell by 1.7% in October compared with September, renewing concerns that the dip in German manufacturing may be deeper than had been thought. Compared with October 2018 output was down by 5.3%, the biggest drop by that measure in a decade.

The Federal Reserve left its benchmark interest rate on hold, and suggested it would stay on hold throughout next year. The central bank cut the rate three times this year, but now believes the risks to the economy have moderated.

Brazil’s central bank lowered its main interest rate for a fourth consecutive time, to a record low of 4.5%. That may spur a further decline in the real, which could be an issue for Donald Trump; he has accused Brazil of manipulating its currency to favour exports.

Tributes were paid to Paul Volcker, who died at the age of 92. Mr Volcker influenced monetary policy for decades, waging a war on inflation as chairman of the Federal Reserve. He also proposed what became known as the “Volcker rule”, which bankers hate because it limits their trading. Asked how bad America’s economy was when he took charge at the Fed in 1979, Mr Volcker replied, “by Latin American standards, it wasn’t so bad”.

Sentence:
A judge on the New York state Supreme Court cleared Exxon Mobil of fraud related to its accounting for climate-change regulations.
纽约州最高法院的一名法官澄清了埃克森美孚公司在气候变化法规会计方面的欺诈行为。

New York’s attorney-general had sought to show that the oil company committed fraud by using two methods to estimate costs posed by possible climate policies.
纽约总检察长曾试图证明，这家石油公司利用两种方法来估算可能的气候政策造成的成本，从而犯下了欺诈罪。

An abundance of shale gas has depressed prices, which are at their lowest in 20 years.
丰富的页岩气压低了油价，目前油价处于20年来的最低水平。

America’s boundless production in shale energy has also kept down oil prices.
美国在页岩能源领域的无限产量也压低了油价。