Sedol, going, gone

Lee Sedol, a Go champion, who in 2016 lost a celebrated match against AlphaGo, an artificial intelligence program, announced his retirement. AI programs now compete in tournaments. Mr Lee reflected: “Even if I become number one, there is an entity that cannot be defeated.”

The magic trick
The flotation of Alibaba’s shares on the Hong Kong stock market raised $11.2bn, making it the most valuable share offering this year, ahead of the $8.1bn that Uber raked in at its IPO in May. The stock rose by 6.6% on the first day of trading in what is a secondary listing in Alibaba. Its shares are also listed in New York.

Uber lost its licence to operate in London, again. The ride hailing company has 45,000 drivers in the city, one of its biggest markets. London’s transport regulator raised more concerns about safety, including 14,000 fraudulent trips by unauthorised drivers. Uber is appealing against the decision and can continue to operate while it does so.

The chief executive of Westpac resigned and the chairman said he would step down next year, as Australia’s second largest bank faced mounting criticism about its response to a money-laundering scandal. A regulator has accused Westpac of failing to monitor more than 23m suspect transactions, some of which enabled child exploitation in the Philippines. The bank has found itself in politicians’ cross-hairs. Australia’s treasurer said it had been indifferent to the scandal; the attorney-general noted that it was an “unbelievably serious” matter. Westpac has reportedly cancelled its Christmas party.

Charles Schwab, America’s biggest discount broker, struck a $26bn deal to acquire td Ameritrade, a rival. The pair had recently been engaged in a price war, both ditching the transaction fees they charged customers. The combined group will have around $5trn in client assets.

The Brazilian real fell to a new low against the dollar, after Brazil’s finance minister said he was “not worried” about a strong greenback. The slide prompted a brief intervention by the central bank to prop up the currency. The country’s current-account deficit has risen sharply this year, and interest rates have tumbled.

Google reportedly fired four employees who had been active in organising protests at the company and had apparently tried to gain access to private internal documents. The tech giant pioneered an office culture that mixes politics with work, which it may now regret. Vociferous staff have pressed management to drop an ai contract for the Pentagon and have walked out over sexual harassment and a search-engine project for the Chinese government. Their latest gripe is Google’s work for immigration enforcement. Google has told employees to tone it down and reduced staff meetings to one a month.

In an effort to boost profits and its feeble share price, Telefónica announced a plan to hive off its operations in Spanish speaking Latin America and focus on its core markets in Spain, Brazil, Germany and Britain, where it brands itself as O2. The telecoms group also wants to expand its business in the internet of things and cloud computing.

On the lookout for new super drugs that will replenish its portfolio, Novartis offered to buy The Medicines Company for $9.7bn. TMC’s crown jewel is inclisiran, a treatment that has been found to be highly effective in drug trials at reducing “bad” cholesterol, and which a patient needs to inject only twice a year.

America’s Federal Aviation Administration said it alone would inspect the 737max before it is returned to service, relieving Boeing of the exercise and signalling that it will sign off each jet individually. That could potentially extend the time frame that Boeing has in mind for resuming deliveries of the grounded aircraft to airlines.

Tesla’s share price struggled to recover from the drubbing it took after an unforeseen event at the launch of its new Cybertruck, which has been described as a cross between a futuristic car from “Blade Runner” and a SpongeBob SquarePants character. The vehicle’s supposedly armoured- glass windows shattered when a steel ball was hurled at them during a demonstration. “Maybe that was a little too hard,” said a startled Elon Musk, Tesla’s boss.

Sentence:
The tech giant pioneered an office culture that mixes politics with work, which it may now regret.
这家科技巨头开创了一种将政治与工作融合在一起的办公室文化，现在它可能后悔了。

In an effort to boost profits and its feeble share price, Telefónica announced a plan to hive off its operations in Spanish speaking Latin America and focus on its core markets in Spain, Brazil, Germany and Britain, where it brands itself as O2.
为了提振利润和疲软的股价，西班牙电信宣布了一项计划，将分拆其在讲西班牙语的拉丁美洲的业务，并将重点放在西班牙、巴西、德国和英国的核心市场上，在这些市场上，它的品牌是O2。

Tesla’s share price struggled to recover from the drubbing it took after an unforeseen event at the launch of its new Cybertruck, which has been described as a cross between a futuristic car from “Blade Runner” and a SpongeBob SquarePants character.
特斯拉(Tesla)新推出的赛博卡车(Cybertruck)在发布时发生了一件意料之外的事情，导致该公司股价遭受重创，此后该公司股价一直难以从打击中恢复过来。赛博卡车被形容为《银翼杀手》(Blade Runner)中未来派汽车与《海绵宝宝》(SpongeBob SquarePants)角色的混合体。

The vehicle’s supposedly armoured-glass windows shattered when a steel ball was hurled at them during a demonstration.
在一次示威活动中，一颗钢球砸向汽车上的装甲玻璃，玻璃破碎了。