In an unexpected move, Sergey Brin and Larry Page stepped down from their respective roles as president and chief executive of Alphabet, Google’s parent company. The pair founded the internet giant in a garage while at Stanford in 1998. They will retain their combined voting majority in the company and continue to sit on the board. Sundar Pichai becomes Alphabet’s chief executive in addition to his job running Google, expanding his brief to oversee “moonshot” projects, such as driverless cars and electricity-generating kites. Messrs Brin and Page assured Mr Pichai they would still be around to offer “advice and love, but not daily nagging.”

Mr Trump said he wanted to raise tariffs on metal imports from Brazil and Argentina, accusing both countries of manipulating their currencies. Finding himself on a roll, the president also threatened to impose 100% tariffs on $2.4bnworth of French goods, including champagne, after the United States Trade Representative found that France’s digital tax discriminates against American companies such as Amazon, Facebook and Google, and is “inconsistent with prevailing tax principles”.

The World Trade Organisation rejected the European Union’s claim that it no longer provides illegal state aid to Airbus, a second victory in recent months for Boeing in the pair’s 15-year dispute. In response the USTR said it would look to increase the retaliatory tariffs it imposed in October on a range of European goods following the WTO’s first ruling.

In contrast with souring trade relations elsewhere, Japan’s Diet approved a trade deal with America that slashes tariffs on American beef and pork imports in return for lower levies on Japanese industrial goods. The limited agreement is a substitute for a Pacific-wide trade pact that Mr Trump withdrew America from. Separately, Japan’s government unveiled a larger-than-expected ¥13trn ($120bn) spending plan to stimulate the economy.

Brazil’s GDP was 1.2% higher in the third quarter than in the same three months last year. The pace of its economic expansion is quickening following a severe recession in 2015-16. Consumer spending and business investment rose in the quarter, helped by falling interest rates.

Also pulling out of the doldrums, Turkey’s economy expanded by 0.9% in the third quarter, following nine months of contraction. Growth was spurred by agriculture and industry. Construction, which has been championed by the government, continued to struggle, shrinking by 7.8%.

UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, said it would cut 10% of its workforce, close 500 branches and take other measures to cut costs, as it seeks approval for a €2bn ($2.2bn) share buy-back programme. After years of paltry profits, it is rare for a European bank to return cash to investors; UniCredit must convince the European Central Bank that it can do so without weakening its capital buffers.

America exported more crude oil and refined petroleum products in September than it imported, the first time it has been a net exporter of oil for a whole month since records began in the 1940s. Boosted by production from lighter shale oil, America’s net exports averaged 89,000 barrels a day in September, the difference between the 8.7m it imported and the 8.8m it exported. American refineries still rely on heavier foreign crude oil.

Sentence:
Sundar Pichai becomes Alphabet’s chief executive in addition to his job running Google, expanding his brief to oversee “moonshot” projects, such as driverless cars and electricity-generating kites.
桑达尔•皮查伊(Sundar Pichai)成为Alphabet的首席执行官，同时还负责运营谷歌，他的职责范围扩大到监督“登月”项目，比如无人驾驶汽车和发电风筝。

In contrast with souring trade relations elsewhere, Japan’s Diet approved a trade deal with America that slashes tariffs on American beef and pork imports in return for lower levies on Japanese industrial goods.
与其他地方不断恶化的贸易关系形成对比的是，日本国会批准了一项与美国的贸易协定，该协定降低了从美国进口的牛肉和猪肉的关税，以换取对日本工业产品更低的关税。

Growth was spurred by agriculture and industry.Construction, which has been championed by the government, continued to struggle, shrinking by 7.8%.
农业和工业促进了土耳其经济增长。土耳其政府一直支持的建筑业继续挣扎，萎缩了7.8%。

UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, said it would cut 10% of its workforce, close 500 branches and take other measures to cut costs, as it seeks approval for a €2bn ($2.2bn) share buy-back programme.
意大利最大的银行UniCredit表示，将裁员10%，关闭500家分行，并采取其它措施削减成本。该银行正寻求批准一项20亿欧元(合22亿美元)的股票回购计划。

After years of paltry profits, it is rare for a European bank to return cash to investors.
在多年微薄的利润之后，欧洲银行很少向投资者返还现金。

America exported more crude oil and refined petroleum products in September than it imported, the first time it has been a net exporter of oil for a whole month since records began in the 1940s.
9月份，美国出口的原油和成品油超过进口，这是自20世纪40年代有记录以来，美国首次连续一个月成为石油净出口国。