As tourist numbers shoot up, Japan faces a chronic shortage of posh hotels.
Property developers spot a five-star opportunity

With its cool modernist interiors and views of Tokyo’s Imperial Palace, Hotel Okura has been the choice of the wellheeled since its gilded lobby was unveiled in 1962 as a symbol of Japan’s emergence from post-war austerity. Taro Aso, the deputy prime minister, enjoys a late-night tipple at the bar. Yoko Ono takes a suite on her trips to the city. Every American president from Gerald Ford on, has graced its rooms. Donald Trump may well have done, too, had the Okura not been shut for refurbishment when he visited Japan in May.

One reason for the Okura’s popularity is the lack of alternatives. Japan has roughly the same number of five-star hotels as Vietnam, and fewer than London or Paris. The Okura has stopped taking bookings for next summer’s Olympics for want of rooms, many of which have been earmarked for organisers. The dearth of highend accommodation has the government considering tax breaks and cheap loans to help build 50 “world-class” hotels—though not in time for the Tokyo games.

Japan came late to mass tourism, points out Koki Hara, a real-estate lawyer. For decades the government pushed industrial growth, so the country’s cities filled up with drab business hotels that catered to armies of salarymen. Property developers dominated the real-estate market and clung to most of the prime city-centre spots. High inheritance taxes mean Japan has fewer moguls than other rich places, hence fewer people who might be keen to build and run posh hotels.

A leap in tourist numbers has exposed the problem. Lured by the cheaper yen, 31m people visited Japan last year, a fivefold rise since 2011. Next year 40m foreign visitors are expected, including 10m just for the Olympics. By 2030 demand for accommodation from foreigners will roughly double, estimates CBRE, a consultancy. A lot of them will be well-off.

Hotels used to be a bad business, but not any more, says Yutaka Kawamura of Mitsui Fudosan, Japan’s biggest property developer. Hotels in central Tokyo are well-performing assets in the property market, with annual yields of around 3%, according to CBRE. Prices at posh hotels have shot up. Some have enjoyed unimaginably luxuriant margins, says Sam Sakamura, vice president of Hyatt Hotels in Japan.

This has drawn in more developers. Property companies are erecting hotels on the sites of old office buildings, fewer of which will be needed as Japan’s workforce ages and shrinks. Franchise agreements with foreign brands, once rare, are becoming common. Mitsui Fudosan is expanding its portfolio in collaborations with Four Seasons, Bulgari and Mandarin Oriental. Hyatt will open four luxury hotels by next year. And in September the Okura completed its $1bn renovation, including an elegant new 41-storey building with views of distant Mount Fuji.

Sentence:
For decades the government pushed industrial growth, so the country’s cities filled up with drab business hotels that catered to armies of salarymen.
几十年来，政府推动了工业的发展，所以这个国家的城市里到处都是单调乏味的商务酒店，为大批工薪阶层服务。

Property developers dominated the real-estate market and clung to most of the prime city-centre spots.
房地产开发商主导了房地产市场，并占据了大多数市中心的黄金地段。

High inheritance taxes mean Japan has fewer moguls than other rich places, hence fewer people who might be keen to build and run posh hotels.
高额的遗产税意味着日本比其他富裕国家拥有更少的大亨，因此更少的人热衷于建造和经营豪华酒店。

Prices at posh hotels have shot up.Some have enjoyed unimaginably luxuriant margins.
豪华旅馆的价格飞涨。有些则享有难以想象的丰厚利润。