Tesla chose Berlin as the site for its first factory in Europe, making electric cars and batteries. “Berlin rocks,” raved Elon Musk, Tesla’s boss. Production should start in 2021.

Disney’s streaming video service went live, the latest in a lengthening line of challengers to Netflix’s dominance of the market. The trove of programming on Disney+ not only includes its archive of animated classics, but also catalogues of material from other studios that Disney owns, which include Marvel, Pixar and 20th Century Fox. Along with rivals like Amazon and Apple (but not Netflix) Disney wants to entice customers into its wider product range—in its case, theme parks and cruises.

GDP in both Germany and Japan grew by just 0.1% in the third quarter compared with the previous three months. Germany avoided a recession (its economy shrank by 0.2% in the second quarter), helped in part by a welcome rise in the country’s exports, which have struggled during global trade tensions. Britain also dodged a recession, chalking up growth of 0.3% following a previous contraction. Solid performances in the construction and services sectors offset flat growth in agriculture and manufacturing.

The prospectus for Saudi Aramco’s IPO provided few details for investors, such as an indicative share price or an exact date for its stock market debut on the Riyadh exchange. Those particulars are expected to be announced soon. The prospectus did indicate that 1bn shares in the state-owned oil company will be offered to Saudi Arabia’s small investors.

The California Trucking Association launched a legal challenge against the state’s new law giving wage and benefit protections to independent contractors. The rules are aimed at workers in the gig economy, though they will also apply to caretakers, maids, carers and many others. The truckers’ group says its drivers’ ability to set their own timetables will be hampered and interstate commerce undermined. Uber and others want a measure to be put before voters next year that would exempt them from the law, which comes into effect on January1st.

National health mistrust
A deal that will see Ascension, an American hospital network, share patient data with Google attracted the ire of lawmakers worried about privacy. Suspicion about Google’s intentions in health is a running theme: it was also criticised for a collaboration with a British hospital in 2016, and with the University of Chicago a year later. It was also reported that Google wants to move into banking, which could set up a clash with financial regulators.

In an update on the progress it is making towards regulatory approval to fly the 737 max aircraft, which has been grounded for most of the year following two crashes, Boeing said it was “possible” that deliveries to airlines could resume in December and that it hopes soon to secure consent for new pilot-training requirements. Southwest and American Airlines pushed back the dates for when they expect the 737 max can take off again until early March.

British Steel, which has been in liquidation following a Brexit-induced slump in orders, received a takeover offer from Jingye, a Chinese steelmaker. There is some uncertainty about Jingye’s long-term commitment. bs specialises in railway tracks and construction girders, technology that Jingye lacks back home.

Carl Icahn, an activist investor, revealed that he has built a 4.2% stake in HP and will push it to accept a takeover offer from Xerox.

No need to be bitter
American connoisseurs of craft brew were crying in their ale upon the news that Anheuser-Busch InBev has struck a deal to buy Redhook, a pioneer in the small-brewers revolution that began 40 years ago. The global beer conglomerate decided now was the time to swallow the roughly 70% it does not already own of Craft Brew Alliance, which also owns Kona and other brands, after its share price fell flat.

Sentence:
Britain also dodged a recession, chalking up growth of 0.3% following a previous contraction.
英国也躲过了经济衰退，在之前的经济萎缩之后，经济增长了0.3%。

Solid performances in the construction and services sectors offset flat growth in agriculture and manufacturing.
建筑业和服务业的强劲表现抵消了农业和制造业的疲弱增长。

The California Trucking Association launched a legal challenge against the state’s new law giving wage and benefit protections to independent contractors.
加州卡车运输协会发起了一项法律挑战，反对该州为独立承包商提供工资和福利保护的新法律。

The rules are aimed at workers in the gig economy, though they will also apply to caretakers, maids, carers and many others.
这些规定针对的是零工经济中的工人，不过也适用于看护者、女佣、护工和其他许多人。

The truckers’ group says its drivers’ ability to set their own timetables will be hampered and interstate commerce undermined.
卡车司机协会说，司机自行设定时间表的能力将受到阻碍，州际贸易也将受到影响。

Uber and others want a measure to be put before voters next year that would exempt them from the law, which comes into effect on January1st.
优步和其他公司希望明年向选民提出一项措施，使他们免受1月1日生效的法律的约束。