Concerns about data privacy were raised following the announcement that Google is to buy Fitbit, a wearable device that tracks a user’s exercise and healthy habits. Google and Fitbit stressed that the $2.1bn deal would not compromise their commitment to transparency on data use and that information would not be sold on to third parties. As well as recording a person’s heart rate, running pace, calorie burn and so on, Fitbit also retains personal information and location details.

Masayoshi Son, the chief executive of SoftBank, acknowledged that he made a mistake by betting on WeWork, as his group revealed a $4.6bn write down of its investment in the office-rental startup. Overall, SoftBank reported a quarterly net loss of ¥700bn ($6.4bn)— “red ink of the deepest red”, said an unusually contrite Mr Son. The Japanese conglomerate had to rescue WeWork after it abandoned an IPO amid questions about its valuation and a shortage of cash. Mr Son is now taking steps to beef up oversight of SoftBank’s many interests, such as demanding at least one seat on the board of any firm it sinks money into.

Part of SoftBank’s loss was also connected to its investment in Uber. The ride-hailing company reported another quarterly loss, of $1.2bn, and said it did not expect to turn an annual profit until 2021. Its share price tumbled to another record low, in part because of expectations that Uber’s shares will flood the market now that investors who were locked in to holding them after the company’s IPO in May are free to sell.

The Federal Communications Commission formally approved the long-delayed merger of Sprint, which is owned by SoftBank, and T-Mobile, Deutsche Telekom’s American subsidiary. A lawsuit brought by a coalition of states attempting to block the deal on antitrust grounds is due to be heard in court next month.

HP, one of the world’s biggest makers of personal computers and printers, confirmed that it had received a “proposal” from Xerox, a smaller company focused on office photocopiers, to combine their businesses. A deal would reportedly be valued at around $30bn.

America and China were making progress in trade negotiations, with each considering a reduction in tariffs. The conclusion of “phase one” of a trade truce is uncertain because of civil unrest in Chile, which has cancelled the apec meeting where the deal was to be signed. Meanwhile, the World Trade Organisation gave China official approval for the first time to impose tariffs on America, in a dispute over steel pre-dating their current spat.

Not lovin’ it
Steve Easterbrook was sacked by McDonald’s as its chief executive for having a romance with an employee. Although the relationship was consensual, McDonald’s said it “violated company policy and demonstrated poor judgment”. Mr Easterbrook has been credited with revitalising the fast-food chain by spicing up its menu. Its share price has doubled since March 2015, when he became CEO.

International Airlines Group, the parent company of several carriers, including British Airways and Iberia, agreed to buy Air Europa, a smaller Spanish rival to Iberia. The deal will increase IAG’s share of the Europe-to-Latin America market from roughly a fifth to a quarter. Michael O’Leary, the boss of Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline, was not happy. He claims the takeover will hurt competition and wants regulators to force IAG to sell off some assets.

Saudi Aramco at last confirmed that it is to launch an IPO, the details of which will be provided in a prospectus scheduled to be published on November 9th. The state owned Saudi oil firm will sell shares on the Tadawul stock exchange in Riyadh. In an effort to widen its appeal domestically, small investors will receive bonus shares if they keep the stock until at least 180 days after the flotation.

Malaysia’s prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, said he was prepared to take Goldman Sachs to court if it did not increase its offer of compensation for its role in the sprawling 1mdb-fund scandal. Mr Mahathir said recently that he had rejected an offer of $2bn from the bank.

Boom and bust
One of the pioneers of America’s shale-gas revolution, Chesapeake Energy, warned in a filing that it was in danger of failing as a “going concern” if cheap gas prices persist. The company has amassed almost $10bn in debt, five times its market value, amid a glut in American oil and gas output, which has driven prices down.

The British government banned fracking in England, after an official report found that it was not possible to predict when and where earth tremors caused by the process for extracting shale gas might occur. Environmentalists were delighted. Others accused the government of pulling a pre-election stunt.

In an attempt to show voters that the government is prepared to toughen up immigration policy, France’s prime minister, Édouard Philippe, announced plans to clear out some migrant tent-camps, as well as to impose quotas for migrant workers and limit migrant access to non-urgent health care.

Over a barrel
A much-hyped Brazilian auction of rights to drill for offshore oil was a disappointment. Two of the four deep water deposits got no bids at all. Observers blamed the high fees set by the government, and uncertainty about the future of both Brazil’s policies and global oil demand.

Colombia’s defence minister said he would resign amid accusations that the army has committed atrocities. One senator accused the minister of covering up the alleged bombing of a guerrilla camp in which children were killed.

A drug gang murdered nine members of a Mormon family in Sonora, a state in northern Mexico. Six children and three women died, perhaps because the killers mistook them for rivals. The LeBaron family broke away from the main stream Mormon church and settled in Mexico in the early 20th century. The victims were American citizens.

Not co-operating
Iran took another step away from the nuclear deal it signed in 2015 by injecting gas into centrifuges at its Fordow facility. The devices could produce enriched uranium to be used for nuclear energy or, if highly enriched, a bomb. Iran said it would reverse the move if the deal’s other signatories— Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia—provide economic relief.

Anti-government protests continued in Iraq and Lebanon. Demonstrators in both countries are seeking big changes to political systems dominated by an old elite and riddled with corruption. In Iraq the authorities have responded with violence. More than 260 people have been killed since the unrest began last month. Adel Abdul-Mahdi, the prime minister, has said he is willing to resign if a replacement is found.

The government of Yemen reached a power-sharing deal with southern separatists. The two are meant to be on the same side in a civil war that pits the Saudi-backed government against Houthi rebels, but they have been fighting each other recently. Saudi Arabia, which hosted the talks, said it hoped the deal would lead to a broader agreement ending the war.

America’s Justice Department charged two former employees of Twitter with supplying personal information on dissidents to Saudi Arabia.

Jihadists linked to Islamic State killed more than 50 soldiers in Mali in an attack on an army base, a month after a similar assault in which more than 40 soldiers were killed. The two attacks are among the worst since 2013, when French forces pushed jihadists out of the towns in the north of Mali.

The International Criminal Court sentenced a former rebel chief in the Democratic Republic of Congo to 30 years in prison for war crimes. Bosco Ntaganda was known as “The Terminator”. His army forcibly recruited children and committed mass rape. His sentence was the longest yet imposed by the court.

Deadly smog engulfed much of northern India, thanks in part to farmers burning stubble and to revellers letting off firecrackers to celebrate Diwali, a Hindu holiday. The government of Delhi closed all the city’s schools and instituted sweeping measures to limit traffic, to little avail.

An attack on a checkpoint in southern Thailand killed 15 people; it was the worst in the region for years. The attackers were militants fighting what they see as the oppression of ethnic Malays in Thailand.

Rodrigo Duterte, the president of the Philippines, put the vice-president, Leni Robredo, in charge of his campaign against drug dealers, during which thousands of suspects have been summarily shot dead. The president and vice president are elected separately in the Philippines, and Ms Robredo is a staunch critic of Mr Duterte.

Classic Don
America formally notified the UN of its intention to withdraw from the Paris agreement to combat climate change, through which countries have pledged (with varying degrees of sincerity) to cut green house gas emissions. The Trump administration argues that the accord would hurt American businesses. The decision can be undone if a Democrat wins the presidential election.

Elizabeth Warren, one of the leading candidates to be the Democratic presidential candidate, unveiled details of her ambitious health-care plan. Ms Warren wants to spend $20.5trn over a decade to transform America’s private market for health insurance into a government-run programme. To raise this extraordinary sum, she would hike taxes, especially on companies and the rich.

Beto O’Rourke dropped out of the Democratic race. Once the darling of the left, Mr O’Rourke struggled to make an impact in a crowded field.

The Democrats did well in a smattering of elections, winning the governor’s race in Kentucky and taking control of the state legislature in Virginia for the first time in 20 years. The Republicans held on to the governor’s mansion in deep-red Mississippi.

Sentence:
America and China were making progress in trade negotiations, with each considering a reduction in tariffs.
美国和中国在贸易谈判中取得了进展，双方都在考虑降低关税。

The conclusion of “phase one” of a trade truce is uncertain because of civil unrest in Chile, which has cancelled the APEC meeting where the deal was to be signed.
由于智利的内乱，贸易休战“第一阶段”的结束还不确定。智利的内乱取消了原定签署协议的亚太经合组织会议。

Meanwhile, the World Trade Organisation gave China official approval for the first time to impose tariffs on America, in a dispute over steel pre-dating their current spat.
与此同时，世界贸易组织WTO)首次正式批准中国对美国征收关税，这是两国在当前贸易争端前就存在的关于钢铁的争端。

Google and Fitbit stressed that the $2.1bn deal would not compromise their commitment to transparency on data use and that information would not be sold on to third parties.
谷歌和Fitbit强调，这笔21亿美元的交易不会损害它们对数据使用透明度的承诺，而且信息不会出售给第三方。

One of the pioneers of America’s shale-gas revolution, Chesapeake Energy, warned in a filing that it was in danger of failing as a “going concern” if cheap gas prices persist.
作为美国页岩气革命的先驱之一，切萨皮克能源公司在一份文件中警告说，如果低廉的天然气价格持续下去，它将面临倒闭的危险。

The British government banned fracking in England, after an official report found that it was not possible to predict when and where earth tremors caused by the process for extracting shale gas might occur.
英国政府禁止在英格兰使用水力压裂法，因为一份官方报告发现，无法预测开采页岩气过程中何时何地会发生地震。

Environmentalists were delighted.Others accused the government of pulling a preelection stunt.
环保人士感到高兴。另一些人则指责政府在大选前耍花招。

Deadly smog engulfed much of northern India, thanks in part to farmers burning stubble and to revellers letting off firecrackers to celebrate Diwali, a Hindu holiday.
致命的雾霾吞没了印度北部的大部分地区，部分原因是农民在焚烧秸秆，狂欢者在庆祝印度排灯节(Diwali)时放鞭炮。排灯节是印度的一个节日。