The burning Golden State
Millions of people in northern California were again left without power, as wildfires, whipped up by strong, hot winds, raged around the Bay Area and surrounding counties. The local utility, Pacific Gas & Electric, has imposed the blackouts because of worries that its power lines may spark the flames. The Los Angeles area also battled wildfires.

Alberto Fernández, a Peronist, won Argentina’s presidential election, defeating the probusiness incumbent, Mauricio Macri. Voters blamed Mr Macri for a recession, an inflation rate of more than 50% and a poverty rate that tops 35%. The newly elected vice-president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, laid the groundwork for these economic problems when she was president from 2007 to 2015.

Bolivia’s electoral authority declared that President Evo Morales won re-election, avoiding a run-off by just 0.57% of votes cast. At least two people died and dozens were injured in clashes between his supporters and those of opposition candidate Carlos Mesa, who has accused the government of rigging the vote.

Chile’s president, Sebastián Piñera, reshuffled his cabinet and agreed to spend extra money on pensions and health care and to raise taxes on high earners, after 1.2m people demonstrated in Santiago, the country’s capital, against inequality and threadbare public services. At least 20 people died in rioting and arson attacks. Chile cancelled plans to host a summit of Asian and Pacific leaders in November and a unclimate meeting in December.

Claudia López, a crusader against corruption, was elected mayor of Bogotá, Colombia’s capital. Ms López is the first woman and first gay person to be elected to the job. The regional elections were a setback for the Democratic Centre party of the president, Iván Duque, who lost control of strongholds like Medellín.

A land divided
A constitutional amendment that strips Jammu&Kashmir of statehood and divides it into two territories administered directly by India’s national government came into effect. Life in the Kashmir valley has been severely disrupted since the government announced the change in August, because of restrictions on communications and travel, as well as protests and militant violence.

King Maha Vajiralongkorn of Thailand dismissed two aides for adultery, a week after he stripped his official mistress of her titles for disloyalty.

Scores of people died when a gas stove being used by passengers to cook breakfast aboard a train in Pakistan exploded. It was the country’s worst rail disaster in a decade.

Protests resumed in Iraq, where dozens of people were killed by the security forces and other armed groups. In the holy city of Karbala masked gunmen reportedly shot dead 18 people. The protesters are angry about corruption, a lack of jobs and poor services.

Mozambique’s main opposition party asked the courts to annul the result of the recent presidential election, which the incumbent, Filipe Nyusi, won with 73% of the vote. The election has rekindled enmity between the ruling and opposition parties, which signed a peace deal in August.

Corblimey, another election
Boris Johnson, Britain’s prime minister, admitted that he could not “get Brexit done” by October 31st, and called a general election. The EU granted an extension until January 31st. Jeremy Corbyn (above), the far-left leader of the opposition Labour Party, reversed course and acquiesced to the election. The date was set for December 12th. Voters will not directly be asked whether they approve of Mr Johnson’s hard Brexit deal, which bears little resemblance to what they were promised in the Brexit referendum in 2016.

America’s House of Representatives voted to recognise the mass slaughter of Armenians by Turks during the first world war as genocide. The vote took place on Turkey’s national day. us-Turkish relations, already strained by Turkey’s invasion of northern Syria, grew more so.

A ban on most abortions in Alabama was blocked by a federal judge, two weeks before it was due to come into force. That makes it likelier that the Supreme Court will tackle the issue, which is what the ban’s proponents want.

John Kelly, Donald Trump’s former chief of staff, said he had advised him not to employ a “yes man” as his replacement, as that would lead to the president’s impeachment. Mr Trump’s press secretary said Mr Kelly had been “totally unequipped to handle the genius of our great president”.

Sentence:
Chile’s president, Sebastián Piñera, reshuffled his cabinet and agreed to spend extra money on pensions and health care and to raise taxes on high earners, after 1.2m people demonstrated in Santiago, the country’s capital, against inequality and threadbare public services.
智利总统塞巴斯蒂安•皮涅拉(Sebastian Pinera)改组了内阁，同意在养老金和医疗保健方面增加支出，并提高对高收入者的税收。此前，120万人在该国首都圣地亚哥举行示威，反对不平等和公共服务的陈旧。

Mozambique’s main opposition party asked the courts to annul the result of the recent presidential election, which the incumbent, Filipe Nyusi, won with 73% of the vote.
莫桑比克主要的反对党要求法院撤销最近总统选举的结果，现任总统菲利佩•纽西以73%的选票赢得了这次选举。

The election has rekindled enmity between the ruling and opposition parties, which signed a peace deal in August.
选举重新点燃了执政党和反对党之间的敌意，他们在8月签署了一项和平协议。

Voters will not directly be asked whether they approve of Mr Johnson’s hard Brexit deal, which bears little resemblance to what they were promised in the Brexit referendum in 2016.
选民不会直接被问及是否支持约翰逊的“硬退欧”协议，该协议与他们在2016年英国退欧公投中得到的承诺几乎没有相似之处。

Millions of people in northern California were again left without power, as wildfires, whipped up by strong, hot winds, raged around the Bay Area and surrounding counties.
加州北部数百万人再次停电，大火在强劲的热风的推动下在湾区和周边县肆虐。

John Kelly, Donald Trump’s former chief of staff, said he had advised him not to employ a “yes man” as his replacement, as that would lead to the president’s impeachment.
唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)的前幕僚长约翰•凯利(John Kelly)表示，他曾建议特朗普不要雇佣一个“唯唯诺的人”来接替他，因为那样会导致弹劾总统。

Mr Trump’s press secretary said Mr Kelly had been “totally unequipped to handle the genius of our great president”.
特朗普的新闻秘书表示，凯利“完全没有能力应对我们伟大总统的天才”。