Fear of the unknown

Overcoming objections to migration is hard, but not impossible

To understand why people oppose immigration, it is worth visiting Tilbury, a port town outside London. Thurrock, the local parliamentary constituency, is 81% white British. Many residents moved here from London as the capital filled with migrants and house prices soared. London’s white-British population fell from 60% to 45% in a single decade, between 2001 and 2011. Some whites moved out because they sold their flats for tidy sums and bought nicer homes with gardens farther from the centre. Others did not like being a minority in the city where they grew up.

During the Brexit-referendum campaign in 2016, Brexiteers argued that leaving the European Union was the only way for Britain to regain control of its borders. A whopping 72% of voters in Thurrock voted to leave. Most do not hate foreigners, but many feel beleaguered and disrespected. “We’re English, not British. If you say you’re English apparently you’re a racist,” says Trish Byne, who runs a tattoo and piercing shop in Tilbury with her husband, Tony. “In the UK, indigenous people are ignored,” says Tony. “The rights of minorities take precedence.”

“We’re in favour of immigration, but controlled immigration,” says Trish. She wants immigrants to integrate, but fears that many try “to impose their cultures and language and religion”. She mentions no personal experiences of harm, but says: “In London, I’ve seen videos on YouTube of streets where English people cannot go because there is sharia law.” She adds, of refugees: “You don’t know what boat people have got in their backpacks, it could be terrorist weaponry. That is not me living in la-la land; that is what I’ve heard from people working on the docks.”

I’ll give my cousins a free ride
Thoughtful writers such as Paul Collier and David Goodhart argue that if too many migrants arrive too quickly, it disrupts communities and inflicts unwelcome cultural change on the natives. Mr Goodhart complains that liberal politicians attach too little weight to the views of people who like things the way they were. This argument should be taken seriously—for some people, any kind of cultural change feels like a threat. The old find it hardest to adapt. “I was born here and it was a lovely village. Now it’s a concrete jungle and you can’t even hear people speaking English—it’s awful,” says Ann Hoyle, 76. But many of the things that voters fear about migrants are not true, and some of their objections can be answered, up to a point, with smarter policies.

Sentence:
Mr Goodhart complains that liberal politicians attach too little weight to the views of people who like things the way they were.
古德哈特先生抱怨说，自由主义政治家们对那些喜欢现状的人的观点重视得太少了。

I was born here and it was a lovely village.Now it’s a concrete jungle and you can’t even hear people speaking English—it’s awful.
我出生在这里，这是一个可爱的村庄。现在这是一个混凝土丛林，你甚至听不到人们说英语——这很糟糕。

But many of the things that voters fear about migrants are not true, and some of their objections can be answered, up to a point, with smarter policies.
但选民对移民的许多担忧并非事实，他们的一些反对意见在一定程度上可以通过更明智的政策得到回应。