The mind behind Linux

CA: You're a very smart computer coder, and you're hellish stubborn. But there must be something else. I mean, you've changed the future. You must have the ability of these grand visions of the future. You're a visionary, right? 

LT: I've actually felt slightly uncomfortable at TED for the last two days, because there's a lot of vision going on, right? And I am not a visionary. I do not have a five-year plan. I'm an engineer. And I think it's really -- I mean -- I'm perfectly happy with all the people who are walking around and just staring at the clouds and looking at the stars and saying, "I want to go there." But I'm looking at the ground, and I want to fix the pothole that's right in front of me before I fall in. This is the kind of person I am. 

CA: So you spoke to me last week about these two guys. Who are they and how do you relate to them? 

LT: Well, so this is kind of cliché in technology, the whole Tesla versus Edison, where Tesla is seen as the visionary scientist and crazy idea man. And people love Tesla. I mean, there are people who name their companies after him. 

The other person there is Edison, who is actually often vilified for being kind of pedestrian and is -- I mean, his most famous quote is, "Genius is one percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration." And I'm in the Edison camp, even if people don't always like him. Because if you actually compare the two, Tesla has kind of this mind grab these days, but who actually changed the world? Edison may not have been a nice person, he did a lot of things -- he was maybe not so intellectual, not so visionary. But I think I'm more of an Edison than a Tesla. 

CA: So our theme at TED this week is dreams -- big, bold, audacious dreams. You're really the antidote to that. 

LT: I'm trying to dial it down a bit, yes. 

CA: That's good. 

(Laughter) We embrace you, we embrace you. 

Companies like Google and many others have made, arguably, like, billions of dollars out of your software. Does that piss you off? 

LT: No. No, it doesn't piss me off for several reasons. And one of them is, I'm doing fine. I'm really doing fine. 

But the other reason is -- I mean, without doing the whole open source and really letting go thing, Linux would never have been what it is. And it's brought experiences I don't really enjoy, public talking, but at the same time, this is an experience. Trust me. So there's a lot of things going on that make me a very happy man and thinking I did the right choices. 

CA: Is the open source idea -- this is, I think we'll end here -- is the open source idea fully realized now in the world, or is there more that it could go, are there more things that it could do? 

LT: So, I'm of two minds there. I think one reason open source works so well in code is that at the end of the day, code tends to be somewhat black and white. There's often a fairly good way to decide, this is done correctly and this is not done well. Code either works or it doesn't, which means that there's less room for arguments. And we have arguments despite this, right? In many other areas -- I mean, people have talked about open politics and things like that -- and it's really hard sometimes to say that, yes, you can apply the same principles in some other areas just because the black and white turns into not just gray, but different colors. 

So, obviously open source in science is making a comeback. Science was there first. But then science ended up being pretty closed, with very expensive journals and some of that going on. And open source is making a comeback in science, with things like arXiv and open journals. Wikipedia changed the world, too. So there are other examples, I'm sure there are more to come. 

Sentence:
The other person there is Edison, who is actually often vilified for being kind of pedestrian and is -- I mean, his most famous quote is, "Genius is one percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration."
另一个人是爱迪生，他经常因为平庸而受到诋毁。他最著名的一句话是，天才是百分之一的灵感加上百分之九十九的汗水。

Without doing the whole open source and really letting go thing, Linux would never have been what it is.
如果不完全开放源代码并真正放手去做，Linux就永远不会成为现在的样子。

And it's brought experiences I don't really enjoy, public talking, but at the same time, this is an experience.
它带来了我不太喜欢的经历，公开演讲，但同时，这也是一种经历。

I think one reason open source works so well in code is that at the end of the day, code tends to be somewhat black and white.
我认为开源在代码中工作得如此出色的一个原因是，在一天结束的时候，代码往往是黑白分明的。

There's often a fairly good way to decide, this is done correctly and this is not done well.
通常有一个很好的方法来决定，这个做得正确，这个做得不好。

Code either works or it doesn't, which means that there's less room for arguments.
代码要么工作，要么不工作，这意味着争论的空间更小。

Obviously open source in science is making a comeback.
显然，科学领域的开源正在卷土重来。