Low-skilled migrants

When a worker migrates, a family benefits

The road to a better life is full of pot-holes. Fourteen years ago Listi Dewi, Idrus’s older sister, saw an advertisement for a job working in a restaurant. Her family needed money and the recruiter made golden promises. So she took a long bus ride from her village in central Java to a town near the Indonesian coast.

It was not what she expected. Instead of starting work, she was locked in a dormitory surrounded by a fence and CCTV cameras. She was told she had to learn English, cookery and housework. She told herself that perhaps this was part of the training.

After two months the recruiters revealed that she was going to be a maid in Singapore, a nearby island-state that is 15 times richer than Indonesia. If she refused, she would still owe them an impossibly large sum for her training and rent, they said. So she went. The agents took her first nine months’ pay to settle her “debt”.

But then things began to look up. Her first employers in Singapore, a traffic cop and a telephone-company employee, were “very, very nice”, she says. For the second job, she cut out the unscrupulous middlemen and went straight to a Singaporean recruitment agency, which found her the first of a series of good employers.

She now washes, cooks and cleans for two teachers, and looks after their children. The pay is good, she says: S$700 ($500) a month, plus bed and board in their comfortable flat with a shared swimming pool. Since she has few living expenses, she can save or send home most of her wages.

Hundreds of people in each room
The costs and benefits of low-skilled migration are complex. The migrants themselves benefit—otherwise they would not leave. Those who employ them benefit. Those who compete with migrants for jobs may not be so lucky. Some studies have found that unskilled migration drags down the wages of unskilled locals. But this effect is small, if it exists at all. George Borjas of Harvard, an immigration sceptic, finds that immigration reduces the incomes of native-born American high-school dropouts by 1.7%. Giovanni Peri, a pro-immigration economist, finds that it actually raises the wages of this same group by 0.6%. Both agree that for native workers as a whole, the effect on wages is mildly positive.

That is partly because native-born workers can do things that newcomers cannot, such as speak the language fluently and navigate local institutions. When lots of low-skilled immigrants arrive and start doing manual jobs such as cooking, cleaning and building, the native-born often respond by moving into higher-status jobs, such as managing the migrant workers.

Migrants often do jobs that natives shun, such as picking fruit, dishing out parking tickets or caring for the elderly. This reduces what locals pay for fresh strawberries, orderly streets and nursing homes. Admitting an unskilled migrant can even increase the supply of skilled labour. Abundant foreign nannies and cleaners make it more likely that college-educated native-born women will go out to work full-time—as Listi’s employers both do.

Amandine Aubry of the OECD and others looked at all types of migration (skilled and unskilled) from developing countries to rich ones. They estimated that 83% of native-born workers benefited materially from it. They did so mostly as consumers, since migrants improved the variety, quality and price of goods and services on offer, from cheaper dry-cleaning to spicier meals.

For the migrants themselves, the biggest cost of moving is often emotional. Leaving home means leaving behind family, friends and one’s own culture. For Listi, there is an extra cost. In Singapore foreigners who make more than S$6,000 a month are allowed to bring their families, but low-paid workers like her are not.

So eager is the government to prevent maids from putting down roots or burdening public services that they are given regular health checks and, if found to be pregnant, sent home to give birth. Listi’s two children are back in Indonesia with relatives. “I used to cry every day because I missed my kids so much,” she says. “But now we use WhatsApp video to call a few times a week. Having connectivity makes it very different working overseas.”

Others have it worse. Tati, another Indonesian maid, used to support a jobless husband with the wages she earned in the Gulf. When she returned for a visit, she discovered that he had not only found another woman but also sold their family home without her permission. “He says he spent the money on the kid. But I don’t believe it,” fumes Tati. She dumped him.

I like the island Manhattan
The most obvious benefits for low-skilled economic migrants are, unsurprisingly, economic. When they move from a poor country to a rich one, their wages swiftly become a lot like those of similarly skilled workers in the place they have moved to, and nothing like those of their place of origin. Natural experiments show that this is not just because the kind of people who migrate are more ambitious. A study of Tongans who entered a random lottery to work in New Zealand found that those who won visas and moved earned nearly 300% more than those who did not—in the first year.

Migrants typically share their gains with their families back home. Remittances to low- and middle-income countries reached a record high of $529bn in 2018, up nearly 10% from the previous year. In 2019 the World Bank predicts that remittances will be the largest source of external financing for such countries. They are already three times greater than foreign aid. And unlike donor funds, they tend to flow directly to the intended recipients, rather than being squandered or embezzled by corrupt officials.

For many countries they are a lifeline. Remittances are more than 10% of GDP in 28 countries, and even higher in Tonga (39%), Haiti (34%) and Tajikistan (30%). Remittance flows are more reliable than foreign investment. Indeed, they are helpfully countercyclical. When a crisis erupts, foreign investors flee. But migrants feel doubly compelled to help their relatives back home.

Listi’s family sometimes went hungry before she went to Singapore. Now, thanks partly to the money she sends home, they are thriving. They have built a neat new home in Bumiayu, with a shop attached to the front selling noodles, spices, cigarettes, soap and other household goods. Visitors are treated to a heaped assortment of cakes made of rice, palm sugar and coconut flakes. As your correspondent is interviewing her siblings, Listi makes a video call from 1,100km away to chat with her eight-year-old son, and make sure he is doing his homework.

For years Listi has paid the school fees for her 17-year-old sister Wanaziah, and helped other relatives. As soon as she turns 18, Wanaziah plans to migrate, too. She wants to work in an electronics factory in Japan. She has heard it is a prosperous, punctual, disciplined place. She likes the sound of that, though to her traditional Muslim ears the Japanese attitude to sex sounds frighteningly libertine. She worries about being lonely, but takes comfort in the fact that several of her schoolmates are also planning to go to Japan. She wants to work abroad for long enough to buy some land. Then she will come home and get married.

Some migrants are exploited. Those who move illegally are especially vulnerable, since they often hire criminals to help them cross borders. Many Africans trying to reach Europe pass through Libya, because it is too lawless to stop them. Unfortunately, it is also too lawless to protect them from abuse. “I was jailed for six months in Libya for no reason,” says Ali, a Gabonese migrant now in Italy. “And the guards beat me with a metal pipe.” Other migrants have been kidnapped in Libya and auctioned to farmers as slaves.

Domestic workers everywhere are vulnerable, since private homes are difficult places for labour inspectors to access. Some maids’ employers take their passports, fail to pay them agreed wages and even beat or rape them. But such things happen in their home countries, too. Indeed, the countries where forced labour is most common are the ones migrants strive hardest to leave.

Migrants have found many ways to reduce the likelihood of being victimised. The most important is the mobile phone, which lets them swap information with friends who have already made the journey. In Bumiayu everyone knows how Listi was cheated when she first ventured abroad. But that is rare now, her family agree. Well-regulated local agencies place people in legal jobs overseas, and help with paperwork. The Indonesian embassy in Singapore circulates numbers for migrants to call if they are in danger. People have learned from Listi’s example. Idrus has a word for his pioneering sister. She is a pahlawan—a heroic warrior.

Sentence:
Natural experiments show that this is not just because the kind of people who migrate are more ambitious.
自然实验表明，这不仅仅是因为迁移的人更有野心。

A study of Tongans who entered a random lottery to work in New Zealand found that those who won visas and moved earned nearly 300% more than those who did not—in the first year.
一项对随机抽签进入新西兰工作的汤加人的研究发现，那些获得签证并移民的人在第一年的收入比没有获得签证的人高出近300%。

Migrants typically share their gains with their families back home.
移民通常与他们的家人分享他们的收获。

Remittances to low- and middle-income countries reached a record high of $529bn in 2018, up nearly 10% from the previous year.
2018年，向低收入和中等收入国家的汇款达到创纪录的5290亿美元，较上年增长近10%。

In 2019 the World Bank predicts that remittances will be the largest source of external financing for such countries.
世界银行预测，到2019年，汇款将成为这些国家最大的外部资金来源。

They are already three times greater than foreign aid.
它们的规模已经是外国援助的三倍。

And unlike donor funds, they tend to flow directly to the intended recipients, rather than being squandered or embezzled by corrupt officials.
与捐赠资金不同的是，这些资金往往直接流向指定的接受者，而不是被腐败官员挥霍或盗用。

Domestic workers everywhere are vulnerable, since private homes are difficult places for labour inspectors to access.
各地的家政工人都很脆弱，因为私人住宅是劳动检查员难以进入的地方。

In Bumiayu everyone knows how Listi was cheated when she first ventured abroad.
在布米亚，每个人都知道里斯特第一次出国时是如何被骗的。