After music, film and television, internet streaming came to gaming with the launch of Google’s Stadia platform. Users pay a subscription to access games in the cloud which can be played on any device with a strong Wi-Fi connection. Game streaming is unlikely to make consoles obsolete. Microsoft and Sony are bringing out new games consoles next year. Microsoft is also planning its own streaming service.

Alibaba priced its forthcoming flotation on the Hong Kong stock exchange at HK$176 ($22.49) a share, which could see it raise up to $12.9bn if all the options are taken up. The Chinese e-commerce giant is already listed in New York. It had wanted to undertake a secondary listing in Hong Kong earlier this year, before the city plunged into political turmoil. Taking no chances, Alibaba’s Hong Kong stock code will be 9988, numbers that symbolise enduring fortune in China.

Scaling back its IPO, the indicative price at which Saudi Aramco is to sell shares on the Riyadh exchange valued it at up to $1.7trn. That is short of the $2trn that Muhammad bin Salman, Saudi Arabia’s de facto ruler, had wanted. The state owned oil firm could raise up to $25.6bn, below the $100bn it had once hoped for, but still pipping Alibaba’s record IPO, set in New York in 2014. Aramco is selling 1.5% of the company: 0.5% to retail investors in the kingdom and 1% to regional funds and institutions; it has scaled back plans to drum up investors outside the Gulf. The shares are expected to start trading in December.

Under pressure to boost economic growth, China’s central bank cut its key interest rates, though by just 0.05 percentage points. The move is another signal of a shift at the People’s Bank of China towards a modest easing cycle.

Australia’s financial-intelligence agency accused Westpac, the country’s second- largest bank, of failing to adequately monitor A$11bn ($7.5bn) in suspicious transactions, some of which were payments to child exploiters in South-East Asian countries. It is the country’s biggest-ever money-laundering scandal, which could result in huge fines for Westpac.

HP rejected a takeover bid from Xerox, which proposed the offer earlier this month. But the maker of computers and printers left the door open to a potential combination of their businesses.

Hip hip Huawei
America’s Commerce Department said it would issue licences to some companies that will allow them to supply goods and services to Huawei again. It had earlier granted another 90-day waiver for commercial sanctions it has placed on the Chinese maker of smartphones and network equipment gear, enabling American firms to carry on supporting existing products they have sold to it. The sanctions have proved to be porous, with many firms finding ways through them. Huawei has so far shrugged off the effects.

Amazon confirmed that it will appeal against the Pentagon’s decision to award a $10bn cloud-computing contract to Microsoft. Amazon had been favourite to win the contract, before Donald Trump, who has kept up a public feud with Jeff Bezos, the company’s boss, suggested it should go elsewhere. Amazon says that procurements should be administered “objectively” and “free from political influence”. Mark Esper, the defence secretary, said the process had been fair.

America’s National Transportation Safety Board found that an “inadequate safety culture” at Uber’s self-driving vehicle division had contributed to the death of a pedestrian in March 2018, the first time someone has been killed by an autonomous car. The proximate cause was the vehicle’s safety driver, who was distracted by her smartphone, glancing away from the road 23 times in the three minutes before the crash. The incident has pushed back the development of self-driving cars.

General Motors filed a lawsuit against Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, accusing it of corrupting its negotiations with unions. The three executives at Fiat named in the suit have already pleaded guilty to charges in a lengthy federal investigation into their ties to the United Auto Workers.

India’s three biggest wireless telecom firms said they would increase fees next month, ending a three-year price war that has given their customers the cheapest data packages in the world. Two of the companies need to raise cash in order to pay government fees following a court ruling. Their share prices surged after announcing the price rises.

Aiming high
Investing in e-commerce and same-day delivery has paid off for Target, which reported another solid set of quarterly earnings. The retailer, which in 2017 struggled with a rapid decline in sales, has also revamped its stores. The turnaround has bolstered its share price, which has risen by 90% since the start of the year.

Sentence:
Huawei has so far shrugged off the effects.
华为迄今未受影响。

Amazon says that procurements should be administered “objectively” and “free from political influence”.
亚马逊表示，采购应该“客观地”进行，“不受政治影响”。

America’s National Transportation Safety Board found that an “inadequate safety culture” at Uber’s self-driving vehicle division had contributed to the death of a pedestrian in March 2018, the first time someone has been killed by an autonomous car.
美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)发现，优步(Uber)自动驾驶汽车部门的“安全文化不健全”导致了2018年3月一名行人死亡，这是无人驾驶汽车首次导致行人死亡。

The proximate cause was the vehicle’s safety driver, who was distracted by her smartphone, glancing away from the road 23 times in the three minutes before the crash.
最直接的原因是车辆的安全驾驶员，她被智能手机分散了注意力，在撞车前的三分钟里，她有23次把视线从道路上移开。

The three executives at Fiat named in the suit have already pleaded guilty to charges in a lengthy federal investigation into their ties to the United Auto Workers.
在联邦政府对菲亚特三名高管与美国汽车工人联合会(United Auto Workers)的关系进行的漫长调查中，这三名高管已经认罪。

Investing in e-commerce and same-day delivery has paid off for Target, which reported another solid set of quarterly earnings.
对塔吉特公司来说，投资电子商务和当日送达已经收到了回报，该公司公布了另一组稳健的季度收益。

The retailer, which in 2017 struggled with a rapid decline in sales, has also revamped its stores.
这家零售商在2017年遭遇了销售额的快速下滑，如今也对店面进行了改造。

The turnaround has bolstered its share price, which has risen by 90% since the start of the year.
这一转变提振了它的股价，自年初以来已经上涨了90%。