Tech-heavy Nasdaq nears rare win in listings battle with NYSE ‘Big Board’

Nasdaq’s listings business is on course to eclipse that of bitter rival the New York Stock Exchange for just the second year since the dotcom bubble.  The Times Square-based exchange raised $32bn via 153 initial public offerings in the first 11 months of the year, outpacing the $26bn in 46 listings for NYSE, according to Dealogic data.

Nasdaq last surpassed NYSE in 2012. Before that, the technology-heavy exchange had failed to edge ahead of the “Big Board” since 2000, during the giddy highs of the internet boom.

Nasdaq’s win overturns the usual state of play in one of the most cutthroat Wall Street rivalries. NYSE typically raises the most by securing the larger deals, while Nasdaq soaks up a greater number of smaller listings.

The contest has “always been intense”, said Nelson Griggs, president of the Nasdaq Stock Exchange. “Every single deal we fight for, and for a larger IPO it’s a bigger fight.”

Nasdaq secured two of the top-five listings, including the third-largest of the year for ride-hailing company Lyft. But the exchange lost out on the two biggest deals to NYSE, with the top spot going to Uber, which raised $8bn when it went public in May.

Uber’s decision to list on NYSE came a decade after the exchange dropped a policy that blocked lossmaking companies from listing — a move designed to weaken Nasdaq’s grip on the tech sector.

In recent decades Nasdaq has attracted the likes of Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Alphabet and Facebook, the largest companies by market capitalisation in the S&P500 index.

Now a new front is emerging in this battle between the New York bourses. Nasdaq raised$4.7bn from biotech IPOs this year, about 15 percent of its total, while NYSE secured none. But in a move designed to attract biotech groups, NYSE cut listing fees by 75 percent in May and capped them at $100,000 over three years for businesses with less than $5m in revenue valued above $200m.

John Tuttle, vice-chairman and chief commercial officer for NYSE, said the exchange “continued to execute the biggest IPOs of the year” and pointed to its ability to attract other deals such as direct listings, where a company’s shares are released on to the market but no capital is raised.

Both exchanges this week proposed to let companies raise capital through direct listings, opening a new front in the rivalry between the pair.

Sentence:
Nasdaq’s listings business is on course to eclipse that of bitter rival the New York Stock Exchange for just the second year since the dotcom bubble.
自互联网泡沫以来的第二年，纳斯达克(Nasdaq)的上市业务即将超过其劲敌纽约证交所。

Nasdaq last surpassed NYSE in 2012.
纳斯达克上一次超过纽约证交所是在2012年。

Before that, the technology-heavy exchange had failed to edge ahead of the “Big Board” since 2000, during the giddy highs of the internet boom.
在此之前，这家以科技股为主的交易所自2000年以来一直未能超越纽交所，当时正值互联网热潮达到令人眩晕的高点。

Nasdaq’s win overturns the usual state of play in one of the most cutthroat Wall Street rivalries.
纳斯达克(Nasdaq)的胜出，颠覆了华尔街最激烈竞争之一的通常游戏状态。

NYSE typically raises the most by securing the larger deals, while Nasdaq soaks up a greater number of smaller listings.
纽交所通常通过争取到规模较大的交易来筹集最多资金，而纳斯达克则吸纳了更多规模较小的上市公司。

Every single deal we fight for, and for a larger IPO it’s a bigger fight.
我们为每一笔交易而战，为更大规模的IPO也是更大的战役。

Uber's decision to list on NYSE came a decade after the exchange dropped a policy that blocked lossmaking companies from listing — a move designed to weaken Nasdaq’s grip on the tech sector.
优步决定在纽交所上市的10年前，纽交所取消了一项禁止亏损公司上市的政策，此举旨在削弱纳斯达克对科技行业的控制。

Now a new front is emerging in this battle between the New York bourses.
现在，在这场纽约的证券交易所之间的战斗中出现了一个新的战线。

John Tuttle pointed to its ability to attract other deals such as direct listings, where a company’s shares are released on to the market but no capital is raised.
John Tuttle指出，纽交所有能力吸引其他交易，如直接上市，即公司的股票在市场上发行，但不筹集资金。