1. Latin American voters have a tendency, in an emergency, to turn to would-be saviours. Mexico’s presidential election this weekend and Brazil’s in October are likely to provide further examples. But when voters choose candidates they normally wouldn’t, the negative consequences are long-lasting. It is the price countries pay when the political establishment fails to protect citizens or prevent the pilfering of public money.

   prevent the pilfering of public money：防止公共资金被盗

   

2. THIS should have been one of the darkest weeks in the history of General Electric (GE). The firm founded by Thomas Edison has been a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, a stockmarket index comprised of leading American companies, for over a century. Alas, mismanagement and a failure to move with the times have turned the erstwhile icon of innovation into a disorganised, debt-laden mess. GE’s shares have plunged to below a quarter of their peak value in 2000. On June 26th GE was ejected from the Dow index and replaced by Walgreens Boots Alliance, a big health-care firm.

   erstwhile：以前的，从前的，往昔的

   debt-laden：负债累累的

   

3. Yet on that same day a ray of sunshine also fell on GE. John Flannery, an insider known for his number-crunching skills who took over as the troubled firm’s boss last August, announced details of a much-awaited restructuring plan. Over the next couple of years GE will spin off its healthcare division and unwind its newish stake in Baker Hughes, a petroleum-services firm. He had previously confirmed the sale of its train locomotive division. Taken together, these three units generate roughly $40bn a year, about a third of the firm’s annual revenues.

   locomotive：机车，火车头

   

4. GE’s share price rose on the news. The obvious reason for cheer was Mr Flannery’s renewed promise to slim down the unwieldy conglomerate, including a vow to slash its net debt and pension obligations by $25bn. He also promised to cut an extra $500m in costs, on top of previously announced cuts, by 2020. Beyond this willingness to wield the axe, Mr Flannery’s plan for fixing GE has three attractive elements: call them “spinners”, spin-offs and “spinning down”.

   slim down：廋身

   unwieldy：笨拙的，笨重的

   wield：使用，行驶，挥舞

   axe：斧