1. Hardly a tech convention goes by in Xi’an without talk of the digital Silk Road.

   convention：大会，惯例，约定，习俗

   

2. In April China’s official news agency said the city was in the “fast lane” to becoming a “Silicon Valley in the west” of the country. That may be an exaggeration. The toll of China’s heavy online censorship may not hinder the code-crunching of programmers. But for the kind of world-class nerds that Xi’an wants to attract, it must be a deterrent. 

   fast lane：快车道

   in the fast lane：在工作或娱乐中总是马不停蹄

   censorship：审查制度

   nerd：网虫，Hacker

   deterrent：威胁，威慑，妨碍物

   

3. On the contrary, she was imagining she was Dante’s Beatrice. She had studied the “Divine Comedy” with Robert Fitzgerald at Sarah Lawrence in New York, and had fallen in love with that notion of unattainable beauty. Her dollar-a-night hotel was on the Arno, and she had a corny postcard of a Victorian painting by Henry Holiday that showed Beatrice walking by the river, in shining white, ignoring the stricken Dante, who pressed his pounding heart at the sight of her. Who knew whether her very own Dante might not be standing on some corner, while she swept luminously by?

   Divine Comedy：神曲 但丁

   

4. When she left college she didn’t know where her place in the world was, so the answer seemed to be to explore it. Her mother, who had travelled young to Sicily, encouraged her to tour Europe until the money ran out. So she sailed third-class with a cardboard suitcase, going to France and round Spain on buses, ending up in Italy to look at art and to paint.

   sailed third-class：乘坐三等舱

   

5. At six feet tall, beautiful, foreign and walking alone, she was clearly an object of curiosity.

   curiosity：好奇

   

6. Nothing was posed, she insisted. The men were just there, hanging round the Caffè Gilli because they had no jobs. She was furious when the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in an exhibition, described it as “staged”. Her second walk had increased the reaction, but that did not make it inauthentic. It was the real McCoy. 

   pose：摆拍

   furious：狂怒的。愤怒的

   staged：舞台表演

   inauthentic：不真实的，不可靠的，假的

   

7. When a man whistled at you, or called out “Che bella!”, you were appreciated. You walked taller. In that moment, you owned the street. She still kept the bag and shawl from that day, as well as the postcard in which Dante stood, staring, in Beatrice’s path. How could Beatrice ever be vulnerable? 

   Beatrice曾经脆弱过吗？