1. The giant has scared off at least one prospective backer of EasyEmail, because venture capitalists try to dodge spaces where the tech giants might step. 

   scare off：吓跑

   prospective：未来的，预期的

   backer：支持者，赞助人

   dodge：躲避，避开

   

2. The idea of a kill-zone may bring to mind Microsoft’s long reign in the 1990s, as it embraced a strategy of “embrace, extend and extinguish” and tried to intimidate startups from entering its domain.

   reign：统治，统治时期

   extinguish：熄灭，压制，偿清

   intimidate：恐吓，威胁，胁迫

   

3. In 2014 The Economist likened the proliferation of startups to the Cambrian explosion: software made running a startup cheaper than ever and opportunities seemed abundant. 

   liken：比拟，把...比作

   proliferation：增殖，扩散

   Cambrian explosion：寒武纪爆发

   

4. Today, less so. Anything having to do with the consumer internet is perceived as dangerous, because of the dominance of Amazon, Facebook and Google (owned by Alphabet). Venture capitalists are wary of backing startups in online search, social media, mobile and e-commerce. It has become harder for startups to secure a first financing round.

   be perceived as：被认为是

   

5. Snap is the most prominent example; after Snap rebuffed Facebook’s attempts to buy the firm in 2013, for $3bn, Facebook cloned many of its successful features and has put a damper on its growth. 

   rebuff：断然拒绝

   put a damper on：扫...的兴，抑制

   

6. The kill-zone operates in business software (“enterprise” in the lingo) as well, with the shadows of Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet looming large. 

   loom：可怕地出现，朦胧的出现，隐约可见

   阴影笼罩

   

7. They are constantly scanning the horizon for incipient threats.

   incipient：初期的，初始的

   

8. Airbnb, Uber, Slack and other “unicorns” have faced down competition from incumbents.

   face down：以自信的神色使人窘迫

   

9. There are three reasons to think that the kill-zone is likely to stay. First, the giants have tons of data to identify emerging rivals faster than ever before. Google collects signals about how internet users are spending time and money through its Chrome browser, e-mail service, Android operating system, app store, cloud service and more. Facebook can see which apps people use and where they travel online. It acquired the app Onavo, which helped it recognise that Instagram was gaining steam. It bought the young firm for $1bn before it could mature into a real threat, and last year it purchased a nascent social-polling firm, tbh, in a similar manner. Amazon can glean reams of data from its e-commerce platform and cloud business. 