1. Mr Trump’s tariffs and quotas have drawn a chorus of disapproval from American buyers of metal, the governments of Mexico, Canada and the European Union, and anyone concerned about the health of the rules-based system of world trade.

   chorus：合唱队，齐声，歌舞队

   disapproval：不赞成，不喜欢

   

2. Disquiet among the consumers of affected products is no surprise. More surprising is the resistance from those the tariffs are supposed to help. Though it at first supported tariffs, the United Steelworkers, a trade union, denounced them when they were unveiled because they included Canada, whose metalworkers happen to be members of the union too. 

   disquiet：担心，不安，焦虑

   resistance：阻力，电阻，抵抗，反抗

   denounce：谴责，告发，公然抨击

   

3. His administration is strangling the WTO’s dispute-settlement body anyway, by blocking the appointment of new judges.

   strangle：限制 [阻止]…的成长[发展]；扼杀

   

4. Mr Trump’s trade policies have put Harley-Davidson in a double bind. 

   double bind：进退两难的处境

   

5. And the European Union is poised to impose retaliatory tariffs on a variety of American exports, including motorcycles and whiskey.

   be poised to：信誓旦旦，随时准备着

   

6. The trail of potential harm to companies—both from America’s tariffs and from retaliation by others—also shows how globalisation makes a mockery of attempts to aim tariffs precisely at foreigners. 

   make a mockery of：嘲笑

   

7. Critics say that space is a commons and America has no authority to confer such rights. As technical hurdles diminish and commercial activity develops, such ownerships debates will become more pointed. 

   confer：授予，给予

   technical hurdle：技术障碍

   pointed：突出的，锐利的

   

8. It works for Mr Hogan, who has a 69% approval rating and is forecast to beat any Democratic challenger. 

   approval rating：支持率

   

9. In April Sir Martin Sorrell, the ad agency’s long-running chief executive, resigned after an internal investigation into his conduct. The firm kept schtum on the details. 

   schtum：quiet or silent

   

10. An American federal judge ruled that AT&T, a telecoms giant, could buy Time Warner, an entertainment conglomerate, rejecting the government’s argument that the deal would stifle competition in the TV industry. It was the justice department’s first defeat in an antitrust court case since 2004 and might pave the way for other “vertical” mergers between distributors and content-makers. 

    stifle：扼杀，使窒息

    defeat：失败的事实

    

11. Tesla is cutting 9% of its workforce to rein in costs. The electric-car maker has burnt through cash at an alarming rate and Elon Musk, its founder, is keen not to tap Wall Street for more funds.

    rein in：控制，放慢，止住

    tap：利用，采用