1. The Chinese have pledged to snap back with their own levies on soyabean, beef and cars; the Americans have threatened to escalate. Donald Trump will not find it as easy to bully China as, say, South Korea. Indeed, he needs its help in bringing North Korea to heel. A trade war will not make co-operation easier. 

   snap back：迅速返回，快速反向

   escalate：逐步增强，逐步升高

   bully：欺负，威胁

   bring sth. to heel：使...就范

   

2. Things looked like they had turned a corner in the firm’s most recent set of annual earnings.

   turn a corner：好转

   

3. Airbnb can barely hide its frustration over the country’s approach to home-sharing. A new law, which comes into force today, legalises the practice for hosts who register with the authorities, but restricts it to a maximum 180 days per year. Local authorities can further curtail that. Worse, on June 1st the government told Airbnb it had to cancel all bookings for June 15th-19th for hosts still in the process of getting licensed. Japan’s give-with-one-hand-take-with-the-other approach goes some way to explaining why the country’s sharing economy, in which people rent goods and services from one another via internet platforms, remains tiny compared with other developed economies. Powerful industry lobbies, restrictive regulation and public anxiety stifle growth.

   host：寄宿

   give-with-one-hand-take-with-the-other：这句应该如何翻译呢？

   stifle：扼杀，使窒息，藏匿

   

4. Hopes that interest would taper off proved a pipe dream. 

   interest：兴趣，爱好

   taper off：逐渐变细，逐渐减少

   pipe dream：白日梦，空想

   

5. Has the state made a hash of it? It certainly set low barriers to entry, luring black-marketeers to cash out. Unlike California, where a weedy 1% of the state’s growers have been licensed, most of Oregon’s pot is legal and taxed.

   made a hash of：把...弄的一团糟

   weedy：似杂草的

   

6. In some regions it has usurped wine as the agricultural heavyweight. Perhaps regulators should just roll with it.

   usurp：篡夺，夺取，侵占

   roll with：调整

   

7. The holding company of Abraaj, a private-equity firm specialising in emerging markets, filed for liquidation—a rare failure within the industry.

   liquidation：清算

   

8. Excitingly for Elon Musk, his Boring Company was picked to build and operate a rapid-transit link between Chicago’s O’Hare airport and the city centre. The deal is a boost for Mr Musk’s plans to bring the world low-cost, super-fast public transportation. The Chicago project could cut the 15-mile journey from 40 minutes to 12, using electric vehicles in subterranean tunnels. 

   subterranean：地下的，秘密的，隐蔽的

   

9. WITH the ink still drying on the Singapore declaration, President Donald Trump was asked why the North Koreans were any likelier to honour its terms than all the previous nuclear agreements they have flouted.

   ink still drying：墨迹未干

   term：条款

   flout：嘲笑，藐视

   

10. It was a reminder that the only unifying principle in Mr Trump’s maverick foreign policy is his relentless eye for personal advantage.

    maverick：行为不合常规的，特立独行

    

11. That is apparent in his North Korea policy more broadly. To use a real-estate analogy: when he was first briefed on the state of North Korea diplomacy by his predecessor, Mr Trump perhaps saw it less as an existential threat than a fixer upper—an opportunity for an easy win.

    broadly：明显地，概括地

    a fixer upper：an opportunity for an easy win

    

12. Mr Trump, unburdened by such niceties, tried them both, sometimes in the same breath.

    unburden：卸去...的负但

    nicety：细节，拘泥细节

    in the same breath：一气呵成

    

13. Whatever the merits of the ensuing detente, the tactic has paid off handsomely for the president. It has enabled him to create a semblance of historic progress, which has driven his supporters wild with glee and bookmakers to slash their odds against him bagging the Nobel peace prize. <

    merit：功过，是非曲直

    ensue：继而发生

    ensuing：接着发生的

    detente：（国际关系中紧张局面的）缓和

    pay off：(某行动) 取得成功; 带来好结果

    Sandra was determined to become a doctor and her persistence paid off. 
    桑德拉决心成为一名医生，她的坚持不懈终于带来了成功。

    semblance：外貌，假装

    glee：快乐，欢欣

    slash：猛砍，大幅度的裁剪或削减

    odd：几率，胜算

    

14. Obliterating Barack Obama’s legacy, by withdrawing from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the Paris climate accord and Iran deal, was a cinch.

    obliterate：忘却，抹去〔想法、感情或记忆〕；完全毁灭〔不留痕迹〕 

    legacy：遗赠，遗产

    cinch：有把握的事情

    

15. Each step was applauded by partisan Republicans, and the costs America will incur as a result are mostly remote and hard to quantify. 

    incur：招致，引发，蒙受

    quantify：量化，定量

    

16. Haranguing America’s allies for better trade and security terms, the main vehicle for Mr Trump’s claim to be pushing America First, has been no harder. 

    harangue：长篇大论；高谈阔论；热烈的演说；喋喋不休

    vehicle：工具

    has been no harder：一点也不困难

    

17. Western leaders are reluctant to argue back, because of America’s heft and occasionally because Mr Trump has a point. 

    reluctant：不情愿

    argue back：反驳

    heft：重量，重要性

    has a point：有道理

    

18. The stifling etiquette of diplomatic relations has magnified the dramatic effect of his grandstanding. 

    stifling：令人窒息的，沉闷的

    etiquette：礼节，礼仪，规矩

    magnify：放大，夸张

    grandstanding：哗众取宠，炫耀

    

19. He could restrain himself—a prediction often made, and never borne out.

    restrain：约束

    bear out：证实

    

20. All presidents become more active abroad as their troubles mount at home; and he, beset by legal peril, could use a foreign distraction more than most. 

    beset：为...困扰，被包围

    peril：危险，冒险

    

21. It also best describes the stunt he pulled in Singapore. 

    stunt：手腕，绝技