1. Sierra Leone is doing a better job of tackling neglected tropical diseases—which affect 1.5 billion people worldwide—than almost any other country in Africa, despite having only 400 doctors for its 7m people. Half the population used to have river blindness in 2003, but now it affects only 2% of people. The country has pulled off this feat through a national control plan, by tackling several diseases at once and by fighting the stigma around them.

   tropical：热带的

   river blindness：河盲症，一种疾病

   pull off：努力实现

   

2. In much of the the rich world, urban public transport is becoming emptier, even as populations continue to grow. City transport chiefs blame under-investment, roadworks, terrorists and high ticket costs. But the real change is in the way people travel. Developments such as video-conferencing and online shopping reduce the need for public transport, and the ubiquity of Uber and the like gives urbanites more options for getting around.

   empty：无人用的，空着的

   ubiquity：普遍存在，导出存在

   urbanite：都市人

   get around：出行

   

3. His ordeal has become emblematic of the unravelling of democratic norms in Turkey.

   ordeal：痛苦的经历

   emblematic：象征的

   unravel：瓦解

   

4. Today Howard Schultz, the executive chairman of the world’s largest coffee chain, steps away from the company he joined 36 years ago. His departure comes at a challenging time. Starbucks plans to close about 150 of its 14,000-odd cafés in America next year, three times more than it typically does, as competition from both high-end roasters and fast-food chains like McDonald’s brews. Sales in China, its fastest-growing market, are slowing, too. And in April, Starbucks found itself embroiled in a racial-profiling scandal when staff ejected two black men from a Philadelphia branch. The company later closed 8,000 stores for an afternoon to give 175,000 employees anti-bias training. As for Mr Schultz, rumours of a presidential bid abound. He is an outspoken critic of President Donald Trump and of Democrats alike. When pushed on his ambitions he avoids being drawn, but the highly caffeinated 64-year-old shows little desire to become a has-bean. 

   embroil：卷入

   pushed on his ambitions：雄心勃勃想要实现抱负