1. General Electric was booted out of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The company had been on the index of 30 share prices continuously since 1907 and was one of its original components in 1896. It is replaced by Walgreens Boots, a pharmacy chain. GE was the most valuable American company in 2000, but its share price has halved over the past year owing to a difficult restructuring process. 

   

2. In a sign of a shifting U.S. economy, the Dow Jones Industrial Average will drop manufacturing conglomerate General Electric in favor of drug retailer Walgreens Boots Alliance starting Tuesday.

    And with that, the much-watched stock market indicator is increasingly reflecting the U.S. pivot toward more service-oriented sectors.

    “With its addition, the [Dow index] will be more representative of the consumer and health care sectors of the U.S. economy,” David Blitzer, chairman of the indexing committee at S&P Dow Jones Indicies said in a statement.

   Now, the index, which dropped GE in part due to its ailing stock price, no longer hosts any of the original companies the Dow held at its inception in 1896.

   GE’s removal from the index comes after AT&T was replaced by Apple in 2015, while Alcoa, Bank of America, and Hewlett-Packard were supplanted by Goldman Sachs, Nike, and Visa in 2013.

   With those changes, here’s a refresher as to the 30 companies that will soon make up the Dow.

   

3. The concept of city clusters is grounded in the theory of agglomeration benefits, which holds that the bigger the city, the more productive it is. A large, integrated labour market makes it easier for employers to find the right people for the right jobs. As companies gather together, specialised supply chains can take shape. Knowledge also spreads more easily. In advanced countries, the doubling of a city’s population can increase productivity by 2-5%, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, a club mostly of rich countries. Studies have found that the potential gains in China are even bigger, perhaps because of its cities’ surprising lack of density. Take Guangzhou, one of China’s more crowded cities. If it had the same density as Seoul, it could house an additional 4.2m people on its existing land, according to the World Bank.

   

4. The World Health Organisation said that the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo has largely been contained, but officials warned against complacency. 

   complacency：自满，满足，自鸣得意