1. But hidden in the muddle there is also a grim logic. Mr Trump, and at least some of his trade advisers, believe that when one unorthodox trade move has knock-on consequences, the solution is not to rethink it, but to follow it with another.

   grim：冷酷的

   unorthodox：非正统的

   knock-on consequences：连锁反应

   

2. The suggestion is absurd, and if the conclusion is that they do, it would make a mockery of the global rules-based system of trade. 

   absurd：荒谬的，可笑的

   make a mockery of：嘲笑，把...作为笑料

   

3. But it will increase America’s leverage as it tries to reshape NAFTA’s rules on cars in ways it has already signalled.

   leverage：影响力，杠杆作用

   

4. Mr Trump seems convinced that the EU’s 10% tariff on car imports violates the spirit of reciprocity, and that Japan treats American car companies unfairly in other ways, such as subjecting them to onerous inspections.

   reciprocity：互惠原则

   subject：使...隶属，使屈从于...

   onerous：繁重的，麻烦的

   

5. China offered to buy $70bn-worth of American goods, including oil and gas, through its state-owned companies if America ditches its plan to impose tariffs on Chinese products. It was the latest move to avert a trade war between the two countries, submitted after talks between Chinese and American negotiators led nowhere. 

   ditch：丢弃

   avert：避免

   lead nowhere：不会有什么结果，一无所获

   

6. The European Union drew up a list of American products targeted for retaliation.

   retaliation：报复，反击

   

7. Its pivot towards cloud-based computing and services has rejuvenated its share price, allowing Microsoft to use only stock to pay for GitHub.

   pivot：枢纽，中心点

   rejuvenate：使年轻，使更新，使恢复精神

   

8. The bank admitted to lapses in checking 53,500 transactions at its “intelligent” cash machines, where money can be deposited anonymously. 

   lapse：小错，过失

   

9. David Drumm, the former boss of Anglo Irish Bank, was found guilty of dishonestly inflating the size of the bank’s deposits before its collapse and subsequent bail-out during the financial crisis. It was a rare instance of a senior executive being held to account legally for events leading to the crisis.

   bail-out：救助计划

   hold to account：使承担责任

   

10. South Africa’s economy shrank by 2.2% at an annual rate in the first quarter, the worst contraction in almost a decade. Agriculture, mining and manufacturing all recorded big drops in output, underscoring the broad-based nature of the decline.

    underscore：突显

    broad-based nature：广泛性质

    

11. Walmart reached a deal by which a private-equity firm will take an 80% stake in its Brazilian operations. The supermarket chain expects to book a loss as a result of the transaction. Walmart entered Brazil in 1995, eventually becoming the country’s third-largest retailer, but it has chalked up seven consecutive years of losses there. 

    book a loss：蒙受损失

    chalk up：记下

    consecutive：连续不断的

    

12. Continuing the pain on Britain’s high streets, House of Fraser said it was closing 31 of its 59 department stores, causing thousands of job losses. Its flagship store on London’s Oxford Street is on the list to shut shop, one of the most visible casualties of the online disruption to retail.

    casualty：伤亡，人员伤亡

    disruption：破坏，毁坏

    

13. Elon Musk said that Tesla would probably reach its target of making 5,000 Model 3 cars a week by the end of June. Tesla’s production glitches have worried investors. This week Mr Musk survived a vote at the annual shareholders’ meeting to relieve him of the chairman’s role, which he holds alongside the job of CEO. 

    glitch：小故障

    

14. Monsanto is no more. Bayer scrapped the name, which for decades invoked ire among green activists because of its development of genetically modified crops, when it completed its takeover of the company this week.

    scrap：废弃，拆毁

    

15. A strike by lorry drivers in Brazil, which blocked roads and led to shortages of fuel and food, ended after ten days. The government agreed to subsidise diesel for 60 days to placate the drivers, whose strike was provoked by rises in fuel prices. 

    placate：抚慰，怀柔，使和解