1. The trade war is the biggest threat to global growth. On June 15th the White House confirmed that a 25% tariff on up to 50bn of Chinese imports would soon go into effect. Three days later, after China promised to retaliate, the president expanded, by as much as 400bn, the other goods America is threatening to tax. If he follows through, nine-tenths of roughly $500bn-worth of goods imported from China each year will face American levies. Meanwhile, the European Union is poised to impose retaliatory tariffs in response to America’s action against EU steel and aluminium. No wonder markets have caught the jitters. 

   be poised to：信誓旦旦，准备就绪，随时准备着

   No wonder markets have caught the jitters. 

   毫无疑问，市场已经引起了恐慌。

   

2. The president is unafraid of escalating trade disputes because he believes he has a winning hand. America buys from China almost four times as much as it sells there, limiting China’s ability to match tariffs. The White House hopes this imbalance will lead China to yield to its demands, some of which (cutting the theft of American firms’ intellectual property) are more reasonable than others (shrinking the bilateral trade deficit). 

   yield：屈服，让步

   

3. But Mr Trump overestimates his bargaining power. If China runs out of American goods to tax, it could raise existing tariffs higher. Or it could harass American firms operating in China. More important, the president’s mercantilism blinds him to the damage he could inflict on America. He thinks it is better not to trade at all than to run a trade deficit. This folly also dictates his tactics towards Canada, Mexico and the EU. Mr Trump could yet withdraw from the North American Free-Trade Agreement and slap tariffs on cars. 

   bargaining power：议价能力

   run out of：用完

   harass：使困扰，使烦恼

   

4. It is difficult to imagine such a realignment without a global recession. Tariffs temporarily push up inflation, making it harder for central banks to cushion the blow. The flight to safety accompanying any global downturn would keep the dollar strong, even as America’s fiscal stimulus peters out after 2019.

   realignment：重新排列，重新组合，改组

   cushion：缓和...的冲击

   fiscal stimulus：财政刺激

   peter out：逐渐消失，逐渐减少