1. Football can also teach countries how to spot and hone human capital. The best performers not only have systems for finding gifted children, but also ways of spotting late developers who failed to make the first cut. 

   spot and hone：发现和磨炼

   human capital：人力资本

   cut：某事物的激烈争斗；某事物的交锋

   

2. Their academies turn out intelligent, creative players rather than dribbling automatons.

   dribbling：盘球，控球

   automaton：机器人

   

3. Becoming ever more powerful according to Moore’s law, the rule that the performance of processors doubles every 18 months, they were able to gobble up computing tasks, or “workloads”, in the jargon. 

   gobble up：吞噬

   jargon：行话，术语

   

4. Moore’s law has started to peter out because making ever-denser chips has hit physical limits. More importantly, cloud computing has made it extremely cheap to amass huge amounts of data. Now more and more firms want to turn this asset into money with the help of AI, meaning distilling data to create offerings such as recognising faces, translating speech or predicting when machinery will break down. 

   peter out：逐渐消失，逐渐减少

   amass：聚集，积累

   distil：蒸馏；提取…的精华；使渗出

   break down：发生故障

   

5. The response from various firms has been to design processors from the ground up with AI in mind. The result of Graphcore’s efforts is called an intelligent processing unit (IPU). This name is not just marketing: on GPUs, memory (the staging area for data) and brain (where they are processed) are kept separate—meaning that data constantly have to be ferried back and forth between the two areas, creating a bottleneck with data-heavy AI applications. To do away with it, Graphcore’s chips do not just have hundreds of mini-brains, but the memory is placed right next to it, minimising data traffic. 

   from the ground up：从头开始，彻底

   ferry：摆渡，来往行驶

   

6. If the history of other semiconductor markets, such as networking processors, is any guide, the new field of AI chips could consolidate before too long, perhaps with one or two processor architectures winning the day. 

   consolidate：巩固，加强

   

7. That question appears to torment Xi Jinping, China’s president, who wants his country to become a football superpower by 2050. 

   torment：折磨，使痛苦

   

8. Football has plenty of rags-to-riches stars, but those who grow up in poor places face the greatest obstacles. 

   rags-to-riches：白手起家

   

9. The model’s most chastening finding is that much of what determines success is beyond the immediate control of football administrators.

   beyond：超出（职责，范围，本分等）