1. Alas, a short while later North-Korea watchers realised that, as so often with Mr Trump, the rhetoric didn’t quite match the reality. 

   rhetoric：修辞，华丽的辞藻

   

2. The two leaders also said they would hold further meetings at various levels “at the earliest possible date” to flesh out the declaration. 

   flesh out：充实，具体化

   

3. There is nothing in the latest screed that is specific enough to be enforceable. The hard work of turning rhetoric into substance will be left to others. 

   screed：冗长的文章

   

4. But either leader can easily derail the détente should he lose interest in it. Negotiations with North Korea over its nuclear programme have always broken down in the past. There is no guarantee, in short, of any progress at all. 

   derail：出轨，脱轨

   détente：〔两国间紧张关系的〕缓和 

   break down：临时出故障

   

5. Mr Trump said it was an “honour” to be sitting down with the North Korean despot.

   despot：专制君主，暴君，独裁者

   

6. AS BRITISH imperialists were trudging through African jungles to secure their newly conquered empire, some of the empire’s subjects were also roaming far and wide, under the cover of the Union flag. 

   subject：国民，臣民

   

7. Like other South Asians, they highly value degrees in medicine and engineering. But they have the added knack of turning a degree into a business opportunity. 

   knack：诀窍，本领

   

8. As well as the accident of geography and the virtues of religion, other significant ingredients in the rise of Gujarati mercantilism were the institutions known as majahans, the equivalent of European guilds. 

   ingredient：原料，要素，组织部分

   guild：协会，行会，同业公会

   

9. Indeed, keeping a low profile has been another Gujarati characteristic.

   keep a low profile：保持低调

   

10. When the occasional colonial official cared to lift the bonnet on Queen Victoria’s empire, he usually found Gujaratis running the engine. 

    lift the bonnet on Queen Victoria’s empire 掀开维多利亚女王帝国的帽子