1. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his Justice and Development (AK) party, plus their nationalist allies, scored a double knockout in parliamentary and presidential elections in Turkey yesterday. The outcome gives the president sweeping new powers over all branches of government. There is little reason now to think he will stop hounding opponents, muzzling the press or picking fights with the West.

   hound：追捕

   muzzle：使…缄默；给…戴口套；封锁…的言论

   pick a quarrel/fight (with sb)：to deliberately start a quarrel or fight with someone
   （对某人）找碴/（向某人）挑衅
   I could see he was trying to pick a fight with me. 我看得出来他是想找碴跟我打架。

   

2. It is a problem made for the sharing economy. Boat-owners make irregular use of their assets; would-be sailors typically lack hiring options. Among companies trying to match the two, Click&Boat and Boatsetter are the pace-setters in Europe and America, and both are trying to scale up. 

   pace-setter：领跑者，带头人

   scale up：增加， 放大

   

3. Most football fans agree that the new video-assistant referee (VAR), who alerts the on-field referee if he makes a clear error, is causing a substantial increase in penalties. During the World Cup that has been true. 

   referee：裁判

   penalty：点球

   

4. The ride-hailing firm has spent the past year attempting to atone for transgressions that culminated in it losing its licence to operate in London. Today, as an appeal hearing begins, it will become clearer whether the charm offensive has paid off. Transport for London declined to renew Uber’s licence last September, citing a “lack of corporate responsibility”—including the failure to report serious crimes or conduct background checks on drivers.

   atone：弥补，赎回，赎罪

   culminate in：以...告终

   decline：谢绝，婉拒

   

5. Consumers can still use the service pending the appeal, and Uber remains hugely popular. It garnered nearly 860,000 signatures on a petition to reinstate its licence and claims to have 3.5m London users. They needn’t panic yet. The firm is likely to do whatever it takes to avoid forfeiting its biggest European market.

   garner：获得

   petition：请求，请愿，诉状，诉求

   reinstate：使恢复，使复原

   forfeit：（因犯罪、失职、违约等）丧失（权利、名誉、生命等）

   

6. The Trump administration is set to make it harder for Chinese companies to obtain American technology by barring many from buying American firms and blocking a range of exports to China. The restrictions, to be announced this week, could have a bigger long-term impact than their trade tussle. America wants to thwart China’s plans to become a high-tech leader.

   thwart：挫败，阻碍