1. More than 1,000 people in the Democratic Republic of Congo were given an experimental Ebola vaccine, as health workers try to stop the spread of the disease. 

   vaccine：疫苗

   

2. In a 7-2 decision, the Supreme Court ruled in favour of a Christian baker who refused to fashion a same-sex wedding cake (though he offered to sell the couple any cake off the shelf).

   fashion：使用，改变，做成...的形状

   

3. But it did not spell out how lower courts should balance concerns about discrimination, compelled speech and religious freedom in future cases. 

   spell out：讲清楚

   compel：迫使

   

4. He promised there would be “no cover-ups” in the investigation into the 1MDB scandal, in which billions of dollars were siphoned out of a development fund.

   cover-up：掩饰，隐蔽

   siphone：吸出，抽取

   

5. Otherwise he treats every relationship as a set of competitive transactions. When America submits to diplomatic pieties, conventions or the sensitivities of its allies, he believes, it is negotiating with one hand tied behind its back.

   piety：虔诚，孝敬

   

6. No other modern president has routinely treated America’s partners so shoddily or eschewed the idea of leading through alliances. None has so conspicuously failed to clothe the application of coercive power in the claim to be acting for the global good. 

   routinely：例行公事地，老一套地

   shoddily：质量很差地，粗制滥造地

   eschew：避免，避开

   conspicuously：显著地，明显地，引人注目地

   clothe：披着...的外衣

   coercive power：强制力，强制权

   

7. Yet in the long run his approach will not work. He starts from false premises. He is wrong to think that every winner creates a loser or that a trade deficit signifies a “bad deal”. He is wrong, too, to think that America loses by taking on the costs of global leadership and submitting itself to rules. On the contrary, rules help deter aggressors, shape countries’ behaviour, safeguard American interests and create a mechanism to help solve problems from trade to climate change. 

   premise：前提

   deter：阻止

   

8. But Mr Trump’s dark, zero-sum outlook is destined to lead to antagonism and rivalry, because it refuses to see that China’s rise could benefit America or to follow the logic that China might be content to live within a system of rules that it has helped devise. 

   antagonism：〔人或团体之间的〕对抗，对立，敌对

   

9. The world order it engineered is the vehicle for that philosophy. But Mr Trump prefers to fall back on the old idea that might is right.

   vehicle：车辆，载体

   might is right：强权即公理

   

10. Remember the words of Henry Kissinger: order cannot simply be ordained; to be enduring, it must be accepted as just.

    Henry Kissinger：基辛格

    

11. On June 1st his administration expanded tariffs of 25% on steel and 10% on aluminium to include imports from allies: the European Union, Canada and Mexico. The tariffs are justified by “national security”, a ruse to render them legal at the World Trade Organisation (WTO).

    ruse：诡计

    render sth legal：使...合法化

    

12. America’s allies are brandishing their own lists of levies on American imports, as is China. Should they strike back? 

    brandish：挥舞

    levy：征税

    

13. A tit-for-tat trade war will unleash destructive mercantilism, which lurks everywhere, not just in the White House. Even in good times, politicians usually forget that the main benefits of trade are higher productivity and cheap imports. 

    unleash：发动，解除...的束缚         leash：束缚

    mercantilism：重商主义

    lurk：潜伏，埋伏

    

14. Instead, they keep tariffs low chiefly to open foreign markets for their hard-lobbying exporters. The more barriers they encounter abroad, the less value they will see in supporting the global trading system. Decades of progress towards freer trade could unravel. 

    unravel：解散

    

15. A third reason for optimism is that automation should also encourage demand. Even in the rich world, radiology is expensive. If machines can make it more efficient, then the price should come down, allowing its benefits to be spread more widely and opening up entire new applications for medical imaging. In the Industrial Revolution the number of weavers rose as the work became more automated. Improved efficiency led to higher production, lower prices and thus more demand for the tasks that the machines could not perform. 

    

16. No one knows how sweeping the long-term effects of AI on employment will be. But experience suggests that technological change takes longer than people think. Factory-owners took decades to exploit the full advantages of electricity over steam. Even now, the computer revolution in the office remains unfinished. Big tech firms such as Google, Facebook and Alibaba have the resources and the in-house expertise to begin making use of AI rapidly. Most other companies will proceed more slowly, especially in tightly regulated areas like medicine. If you happen to be training for a career in radiology—or anything else that cannot be broken down into a few easily automated steps—it is probably safe to carry on.