1. Privacy rules designed for the landline phone, postbox and filing cabinet urgently need to be strengthened for the age of the smartphone, e-mail and cloud computing. 

   landline phone：固定电话

   

2. When East Germany collapsed in 1989, people marvelled at the store of information the Stasi security service had garnered on them, and the vast network of informants it took to compile it.

   marvel：感到惊讶

   informant：提供消息者，告密者

   

3. Vigilance and transparency must be the watchwords. A bill recently proposed in California would compel police agencies to disclose what surveillance gear they have, publish data on its use and seek public input before buying any more. If that makes progress slower so be it. Police rightly watch citizens to keep them safe. Citizens must watch the police to remain free. 

   vigilance：警戒，警觉

   watchword：口号，标语

   

4. Mr Duque is aligned with Álvaro Uribe, a former president and critic of the peace deal with FARC guerrillas. 

   be aligned with：与...保持一致，与...结盟

   

5. The strike began as a protest against rising petrol prices, but thousands of Brazilians have supported the drivers by taking to the streets and blocking motorways to air a wide range of grievances. 

   take to the streets：走上街头（示威）

   air a wide range of grievances：空气中弥漫着各种各样的不满

   

6. He was ensnared in a corruption scandal and faced lurid allegations from a former lover. He denies claims of wrongdoing, believing himself to be the victim of a political vendetta.

   ensnare：诱捕，诱入陷阱

   vendetta：（尤指族间或血亲间的）仇杀；深仇 