1. The court found that, although the plumber’s contract bore features of being self-employed, his work was controlled and restricted by the firm, akin to a normal job. 

   bore：bore的过去式，带有〔某种标记或外观特征〕

   The letter bore no signature. 
   这封信上没有署名。
   a car bearing diplomatic license plates 
   挂外交牌照的车
   The labels bear a yellow and black symbol. 
   标签上有一个黄黑两色的标记。
   The town still bears the scars of the bombings during the war. 
   城里依然可见战时轰炸留下的疮痍。
   The store bears the hallmarks (= it has the qualities ) of a family-owned business. 
   这个商店有家族企业的特色。

   

2. Just a month after it passed the measure unanimously, Seattle’s governing council rescinded a tax on the city’s biggest companies amounting to $275 per full-time employee. The tax was intended to raise money to ease Seattle’s homelessness problem, but met fierce resistance from Amazon, Starbucks and others with headquarters there. Amazon described the levy as “hostile”. Such “head taxes” are being considered in other cities, including San Francisco, where the growth of tech firms is blamed for pushing locals out of the housing market. 

   

3. German authorities handed Volkswagen a €1bn ($1.2bn) fine for cheating emissions tests, one of the biggest-ever penalties levied against a company in Germany.

   

4. Tesla is to reduce its global workforce by 9%, or around 3,500 employees, part of an effort to streamline management and generate sustainable profits. The job cuts won’t affect production workers, who are racing to reach the all-important target of making 5,000 Model 3 cars a week by the end of June. 