1. Workers use wooden spades to spread grain on the highway to dry, using half its width so that traffic can still pass on the other side. 

   spade：铁锹，铲子

   

2. The financial performance hints at an airline that has seen better days. From a position of monopoly until 1994, Air India now has just 12% of the domestic market and falling. Lower-cost rivals offer vastly better service. Truculent unions—which cheered the failed sale—mean even the most hard-nosed buyer would have a hard time carrying out the restructuring the authorities admit is necessary. 

   truculent：好斗的

   hard-nosed：精明的，讲究实际的

   

3. Italy at long last got a new government, following 88 days of political impasse. 

   at long last：最后，终于

   impasse：僵局

   

4. He points to bilateral trade deficits as evidence of “unfair trade” (although this logic has scant grounding in economics). The president’s critics say that undermining the global order will, over the long term, weaken America’s power to stand up to its real rival: China. 

   scant：不足的，缺乏的

   undermine：逐渐损害，暗中破坏

   

5. America struck a deal with ZTE that will allow crippling sanctions imposed on the Chinese telecoms giant over its dealings with Iran and North Korea to be lifted. The firm will pay $1bn (on top of a previous $1.2bn fine), change its management and board, and allow in American monitors. The settlement might help ease Sino-American trade tensions. 

   strike a deal：成交

   crippling：造成严重后果的

   on top of：紧接着

   

6. Jamie Dimon, the head of JPMorgan Chase, and Warren Buffett, boss of Berkshire Hathaway, have written an article laying out their case for companies to ditch quarterly earnings guidance. They say it distorts incentives and makes bosses chase short-term targets while skimping on needed long-term investments.

   ditch：丢弃

   skimp on：克扣

   

7. Gavin Patterson is to step down as the boss of struggling BT later this year. The British telecoms firm recently announced a comprehensive restructuring process, including the axing of 13,000 jobs. However, investors were uncertain whether Mr Patterson was the right man to see it through. Under his tenure, BT battled regulators and uncovered a huge pension-fund deficit. 

   axe：砍掉，裁减