1. All this is hard to square with China’s ever greater disdain for the West, its leadership’s growing hostility to Western values and its public’s tendency to respond to perceived slights by Westerners with chest-thumping nationalism. But looking further ahead, it is possible to take a more sanguine view.

   square with：与...协调

   disdain：轻视，蔑视

   chest-thumping：拍胸脯，虚张声势，空头许诺

   所有这一切都很难与中国对西方的更大的蔑视相一致，它的领导层对西方价值观的敌意与日俱增，而且公众倾向于回应那些带有强烈民族主义情绪的西方人的蔑视。

    

2. Among the Chinese Communist Party’s earliest members were Deng Xiaoping and Zhou Enlai. They both joined the party in the 1920s while in France on a “work-study” programme that involved much toil and little education. The grimness of this experience turned them, and many other participants, into eager recruits for the communist cause.

   work-study：半工半读的，勤工俭学的

   toil：辛苦，苦工

   grimness：严峻，严格

   communist cause：共产主义事业

   

3. The lira, which has taken a battering over concerns that the central bank’s independence is under threat from politicians in Turkey agitating for lower interest rates, rallied in response.

   battering：重创，连续打击

   agitate for：鼓动

   rally in response：应声上涨

   

4. One of the biggest changes would ease the burden on banks having to prove that each trade has a purpose beyond a speculative bet. The proposals are open to comment, but banks have lobbied hard for the modifications.

   burden：负但

   

5. Piling the pressure on China amid negotiations to avoid a trade war, the Trump administration said it was moving ahead with plans to impose tariffs on $50bn-worth of Chinese imports, contradicting recent remarks by Steven Mnuchin, the treasury secretary, that the penalties had been put on hold.

   contradict：反驳，否认，与...矛盾

