1. The Trump administration backed away from a proposal to create a new body to scrutinise Chinese investment in American technology. Instead, a beefed-up Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which screens foreign investors for potential threats to national security, will have additional powers to block Chinese acquisitions.

   beefed-up：被加大的，被加强的

   

2. Weighed down in part by worries about the trade rift between America and China, the Shanghai Composite, China’s leading stockmarket index, hit a 25-month low. The central bank’s half-a-percentage-point cut to the amount of cash some banks must set aside as reserves did little to improve sentiment.

   weigh down：压低，使颓丧，使负重

   rift：裂缝，不和

   Shanghai Composite：上证指数

   

3. Mark Carney criticised the EU for dragging its heels in preparing the financial-services industry for a post-Brexit world. The governor of the Bank of England said that Britain has tackled the potential disruption to derivatives and insurance contracts, but that the EU had yet to offer solutions to these “fundamental issues”. 

   dragging its heels：行动迟缓

   

4. Apple and Samsung settled their seven-year war over patents, according to court documents that did not disclose the terms. Apple originally sued Samsung for copying some of the iPhone’s features, leading to legal challenges and appeals. Apple is still preparing to do battle with Qualcomm in the courts over what it claims are excessive royalties for chips.

   royalty：版税，使用费

   

5. OPEC and Russia reached a deal to raise oil production from July 1st, ending a 18-month cut in output designed to push up oil prices. During that time OPEC’s output fell by more than had been expected, mostly because of the chaos in Venezuela’s oil industry; oil prices almost doubled. Worried about the economic effect of higher prices, America, China and India had put pressure on OPEC, and specifically Saudi Arabia, to act.

   put pressure on：施加压力

   

6. American consumers may soon pay more for goods bought online, following the Supreme Court’s decision to overturn a 26-year-old law through which online retailers avoided charging sales tax. The court found that states were losing up to $33bn in tax revenue each year because of the loophole, and that bricks-and-mortar retailers were at a competitive disadvantage because they were obliged to charge a sales tax. 

   loophole：漏洞

   

7. A long-standing ban on women driving was lifted in Saudi Arabia. The mood was celebratory as women took to the road. So far relatively few have been granted licences, though many thousands have applied.

   

8. Anthony Kennedy announced his retirement from the Supreme Court. He often delivered the swing vote between the court’s ideological wings and wrote the opinion legalising gay marriage. Mr Trump now has the chance to nominate a judge with a more decisively conservative bent and reshape the court.