1. To look only at the headline numbers, populism and protectionism seem to be weirdly good for global business. Look more closely, however, and it becomes clear that the decay of globalisation is accompanied by a steady demoralisation of multinationals. Cross-border investment by firms is falling and bosses are being more cautious, an impulse further amplified by trade tensions. This is unlikely to change while Donald Trump remains in office.

   headline numbers：总体数字

   weirdly：古怪的

   decay：衰退

   demoralization：士气低落

   multinational：跨国公司

   

2. Argentines hope for better news this week. First-quarter GDP figures released today are expected to show year-on-year growth of 3.5%.Tomorrow MSCI, a company that designs stockmarket indices, may admit Argentine shares into its widely tracked emerging-market equity index for the first time since 2009. That could push Argentina’s stockmarket up by as much as a fifth. But any break in the gloom may prove short-lived. GDP growth in the second half of 2018 is likely to be much lower, the result of high interest rates and a severe drought that ruined this year’s grain harvest. Mr Macri will not have long to bask in the good news. 

   year-on-year：与上年同期数字相比的

   break：突破

   bask in：取暖，感到舒适，沐浴在...

   

3. Efforts to prolong the truce, following President Ashraf Ghani’s unilateral extension of the government’s own ceasefire by ten days, foundered. 

   prolong：延长，拖延

   truce：停战，休战

   founder：失败，沉没，倒塌

   

4. Such fraternisation unnerved the leadership. Yet in the scrupulous observance of the ceasefire (marred only by two Islamic State suicide bombings) the Taliban proved it is not a rag-tag alliance, but responds to top-down direction. Pressure from within, as well as America’s increasing willingness to discuss the withdrawal of troops, could revive the dormant peace process. Another ceasefire is mooted for September. As this one showed, it could prove popular.

   fraternize：〔尤指违反禁令与某人〕交好，亲善

   The troops were forbidden to fraternize with the enemy. 

   部队严禁亲敌

   unnerve：使焦躁，使身心疲倦

   scrupulous：细心的，谨慎的，一丝不苟的

   observance：惯例，仪式，庆祝

   mar：毁坏，损伤

   rag-tag alliance：下层社会联盟

   dormant：休眠的，睡眠状态的，隐匿的

   moot：提出...供讨论

   

5. The internal Republican spat threatens to derail broader legislation over immigration, including funding for Donald Trump’s promised wall along the Mexican border.

   spat：口角

   derail：出轨，破坏

   

6. In the open letter, Huawei, which faces restrictions in America, cited 5G deals in Britain, Canada and New Zealand that abide by cybersecurity protocols.

   abide：遵守