1. The teller fixes a camera on her and reels off a series of questions.

   reel off：流畅的讲，一口气说

   

2. And its pathologies have been worsened by the belief that if anything goes wrong, the government will cover the losses.

   pathology：病理学

   

3. But for the financial system, they are a step away from the precipice. 

   a step away from the precipice：距离悬崖一步之遥

   

4. Banks have used such transactions to channel cash into off-balance-sheet loans, serving riskier corners of the economy. Firms with little lending expertise have also muscled into the same space.

   muscle into：用力，挤进

   

5. Yet in the past year shadow banking’s seemingly unstoppable progress has all but stopped. Last year the 30trn yuan market for “wealth-management products” (WMPs), a main conduit for savings to fund banks’ off-balance-sheet loans, stalled for the first time in its decade of existence.

   unstoppable：势不可挡的

   conduit：导管，沟渠，导水管

   

6. Many had classified large dollops of credit as investments in order to hide bad loans. 

   large dollops of credit：大量信贷

   

7. The question is whether China will flinch as the pain mounts.

   flinch：退缩，畏惧

   pain mounts：痛苦增加

   

8. In the stop-go style of the past decade, supervisors have relaxed their grip whenever the growth toll looked too high.

   toll：代价，通行费

   

9. Discovering and harnessing fire unlocked more nutrition from food, feeding the bigger brains and bodies that are the hallmarks of modern humans.

   unlock：释放

   nutrition：营养

   hallmark：印记

   

10. The patents have not yet been granted—indeed, they may not be—but the request flies in the face of the AI community’s accepted norms of openness and tech-sharing.

    fly in the face of：悍然不顾，背道而驰