1. In California it looks as if they have avoided a catastrophe born of the state’s odd primary system. 

   odd primary system：奇怪的初选系统

   

2. The deeply Catholic island of Malta has come first in an annual index comparing the rights of LGBT people across Europe. 

   in an annual index：年度指数

   

3. The tally for this year has already reached almost 5,000. Many of the refugees, who come in large part from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq, had been stuck in Greece or Serbia and are now trying other routes to western Europe. 

   tally：计数器，记账

   stuck in：陷入

   

4. Why do some people make more money than others? Intelligence and diligence can be factors, as can a willingness to do an unpleasant or dangerous job. But the strongest predictor of how much you earn is where you were born. At the same time, simply moving to a wealthy country has a massive impact on a person’s productivity.

   diligence：勤奋，勤勉

   

5. Many gaps exist in legal protections: in who is covered (eg, interns often are not), what counts as a workplace and what counts as harassment. 

   gap：分歧

   intern：实习生

   

6. Campaigners, including union bosses, have argued that clear, binding legal frameworks and standards are needed. The ILO has never been known to rush things; this week’s convention will be followed by another in June 2019, when it is hoped that new standards will be adopted. Better late than never. 

   Campaigner：竞选者，从军者，出征者，活动推动者

   binding：有约束力的

   

7. This would normally be routine, but Mrs May’s Brexit troubles lend it new significance. 

   lend：给予，增添[某种特性]

   The presence of members of the royal family lent a certain dignity to the ceremony. 

   王室成员的出席为这场典礼增添了一种庄严的气氛。

   

8. Norway is outside the European Union, but as a member of the European Economic Area has full access to the EU’s single market. Most Brexiteers dislike the EEA model: Norway must follow most EU rules, including free movement of people, but as a rule-taker without any say.

   rule-taker：遵守规则的人

   without any say：没有发言权

   

9. Other mainstream parties have forsworn co-operation with Mr Babis, who faces criminal charges for an EU subsidy scam. He contends that the allegations are politically motivated, and the public looks unperturbed. Should the coalition deal collapse, and new elections follow, polls suggest that Mr Babis will win again.

   forsworn：发誓抛弃

   scam：骗局，诡计

   contend：斗争，争论

   unperturbed：镇定的，平静的，未受到扰乱的

   

10. Mindful of China’s easily hurt feelings, and still smarting from a tussle along their Himalayan border last summer, India sent a smaller flotilla this year.

   smart from：伤心

   tussle：争斗，扭打

   flotilla：小型船队，小舰队

   

11. In 2013 Vedanta was fined 1bn rupees (then $16m) for flouting pollution-control norms. The company says it conforms with all environmental standards, but the state government has directed the plant to be permanently shut. 

    flout：公然无视，违抗〔法律、规定等〕

    conform：符合，遵照

    

12. Britain’s Labour Party has demanded to have Vedanta’s shares delisted from the London Stock Exchange. 

    delist：退市

    

13. The British government cleared the way for both Comcast and 21st Century Fox to bid for Sky, thus setting in motion an inevitable bidding war.

    set in motion：开始，调动，把...发动起来

    

14. On May 29th, days after tariffs on imports from China were supposedly put on hold, official word came that tariffs on $50bn of Chinese imports would be imposed “shortly” after June 15th.

    supposedly：可能

    put on hold：搁置，延期，暂停

    

15. Barring a last-minute change of heart—which would not be the first—as The Economist went to press the administration was expected to announce tariffs on steel and aluminium imports from the EU from June 1st.

    Barring：除非，除...以外