1. It would also put huge pressure on the overburdened foster-care system—which is only one of the ways Mr Sessions’s tough line is likely to be futile. 

   tough line：强硬路线

   futile：无用的，徒劳无功的

   

2. Moreover, how countries treat migrants is an important advertisement of their character and values, which Americans underrate to their cost. America’s reputation for being fair and decent attracts highly skilled people. It is also among the reasons foreigners trust American diplomacy and admire its culture—despite the erosion of its reputation that has followed Mr Trump’s election. e

   underrate：低估，看轻

   decent：正派的，得体的，相当好的

   erosion：侵蚀，腐蚀

   

3. Mr Sessions’s cruelty will also widen the partisan gulf. It provides more ammunition to those on the left who accuse his party of racism.

   cruelty：残酷，残忍

   gulf：分歧，海湾，深渊

   ammunition：弹药，军火；装弹药

   

4. When accused by Democrats of racism, even moderate Republican voters are liable to defend the policy out of partisan pique. 

   pique：生气，愠怒

   

5. By recruiting more immigration judges, he could cut the vast backlog of cases that his draconian methods also threaten to make worse. 

   backlog：积压的工作，积压待办的事务

   draconian：严厉的，苛刻的

   

6. Italy’s real problem is the debilitating combination of chronically low growth and high public debt. Low growth means living standards are stagnant and Italy cannot work off its debt easily; high debt means it cannot use fiscal stimulus to boost the economy, especially if there is another downturn. Even with the global upswing of recent years, Italy remains one of Europe’s worst-performing economies. "

   debilitate：使虚弱，使衰弱

   chronically：长期的，慢性的

   stagnant：停滞的，不景气的

   downturn：衰退（经济方面），低迷时期

   

7. Though populists rail against austerity, years of budgetary restraint give them a bit of room to introduce their policies. But doing so at any scale requires them to shift the burden of taxes and expenditure, not add to it.

   rail against：抱怨，责骂

   austerity：紧缩，朴素

   expenditure：支出，花费