Boeing to launch ‘Wingman’ military drone

Boeing has unveiled a new unmanned aircraft developed in Australia that it says will be able to provide fighter jet like performance at a much lower cost.

The prototype, rolled out at an air show in Australia yesterday, was developed by Boeing Australia and represents the American company’s largest investment in a new unmanned aircraft programme outside the US, although Boeing declined to specify how much it spent.

The Boeing Airpower Teaming System, which is almost 12m long and can fly for more than 2,000 nautical miles, is designed to fly independently or in  support of manned military aircraft.

Kristin Robertson, vice-president of Boeing Autonomous Systems, said the unmanned aircraft would provide a disruptive advantage for allied forces.

“With its ability to reconfigure quickly and perform different types of missions in tandem with other aircraft, our newest addition to Boeing’s portfolio will truly be a force multiplier as it protects and projects air power,” she said.

Boeing wants to sell the aircraft, which can be customised to meet a country’s particular requirements, to global customers.

John Coyne, an analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, said the drones offered a low-cost, low-threat and low-risk solution for defence forces around the world.

“Unmanned aircraft can be kept up in the sky longer and travel further distances than manned aircraft. There is less risk to human life and much lower staffing levels are required,”he said.

The Australian government said it would invest up to A$40m ($29m) to develop the concept further and integrate the unmanned aircraft into its air force.

The Boeing Australia drone is the first military aircraft designed in Australia since the second world war. It is part of Canberra’s policy to develop a sustainable domestic military manufacturing base and export industry.

“The partnership will produce a concept demonstrator of a low-cost unmanned ‘Loyal Wingman’ aircraft, capable of operating in concert with Air Force’s fifth-generation air combat capability,” said Christopher Pyne,Australia’s defence minister.

Mr Coyne said Australia’s large land mass and unique maritime terrain meant its air force had a particular need for surveillance technologies that could remain in the air over very long distances.

Defence forces around the world are increasingly turning to unmanned aircraft and drones for a variety of missions, such as surveillance, reconnaissance and combat, that were previously performed by manned aircraft.

Last year Canberra said it would spend almost A$7bn on six Triton drones manufactured by Northrop Grumman.