The crash of an Ethiopian Airlines jet, killing all 157 people on board, raised safety questions about Boeing’s 737 max8 aircraft. It was the second time a max 8 has crashed within five months, with what appear to be similar problems on take-off. As a precaution the EU stopped the plane from flying, as did many countries, including Australia, China and, eventually, America. Amid reports that the aircraft’s software may be at fault, Boeing was forced to ground the entire global fleet of 737 max 8s.

Turkey’s economy fell into recession at the end of 2018. For the whole of 2018 the economy grew by 2.6%, the weakest pace in a decade and far below the 7.4% recorded in 2017 in the wake of the government’s construction-led stimulus. The economy took a hit last year from a run on the lira, caused in part by uncertainty about the political independence of the central bank.

China’s exports declined by almost 21% in February compared with the same month last year, a much worse showing than most economists had forecast. Imports fell by 5.2%. The Chinese new-year celebrations may have had a distorting effect. China’s overall trade surplus for the month narrowed sharply, to $4.1bn.

Another big monthly drop in German industrial production led to more concern about the euro zone’s economy. The European Central Bank recently slashed its forecast for growth this year to 1.1% from a previous projection of 1.7% and pushed back any rise in interest rates until at least the end of the year. It also announced a new programme of cheap loans for banks.

Statistical outliers?
In a grim week for economic news, American employers added just 20,000 jobs to the payrolls in February, far below the 311,000 that were created in January. Still, February marked the 101st consecutive month of job growth, a record streak.

Ned Sharpless, the director of America’s National Cancer Institute, was appointed the acting commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, following the surprise announcement by Scott Gottlieb that he is standing down for personal reasons. In one of his final acts Mr Gottlieb this week issued regulations that in effect will stop convenience stores and petrol stations from selling a wide range of flavoured e-cigarettes.

In a deal that highlights its shift away from making highend chips for the video-game industry, Nvidia agreed to buy Mellanox, which provides technologies for artificial intelligence, machine learning and data analytics, for $6.9bn. Mellanox was founded in Israel, where companies that produce ai-related technology are flourishing.

Volkswagen ramped up its plans for electric cars, announcing that it intends to launch almost 70 new models over the next decade, instead of the 50 it had planned. It now expects battery-powered vehicles to account for 40% of its sales by 2030, making it the largest car firm that is committed to electrification by some distance. The switch to electric cars, which need fewer workers to make than the gas-guzzling sort, threatens jobs. This is likely to provoke a confrontation with the firm’s powerful unions.

Renault, Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors created a new “consensus based” structure for their alliance, as they try to move on from the arrest of Carlos Ghosn for alleged financial wrongdoing (Mr Ghosn denies the charges). The new board replaces an arrangement where Mr Ghosn sat at the pinnacle of the alliance. It is chaired by Jean-Dominique Senard, Renault’s new chairman. The CEOs of the three carmakers are the board’s other members. Mr Senard will not, however, also become Nissan’s chairman, settling instead for vice-chairman. The crosscompany stakes that each carmaker holds stay the same.

Barrick Gold dropped its $18bn hostile bid for Newmont Mining, ending a short but fierce takeover battle in which each side criticised the other’s management strategy. The pair are instead to create the world’s largest goldmining site in a joint venture in Nevada.

The latest twist
Levi Strauss filed for an IPO on the New York Stock Exchange, which could see the inventor of blue jeans valued at up to $6.2bn. The 165-year-old clothier was taken private in 1985 after 14 years as a public company on the stockmarket.

As Tesla prepared to launch its newest vehicle, the Model Y, Elon Musk’s lawyers filed a defence against the Securities and Exchange Commission’s claim that he was in contempt of court for tweeting misleading company information, which would contravene last year’s settlement with the regulator. The filing accuses the SEC of trampling on Mr Musk’s right to free speech. Tesla, meanwhile, made a sharp U-turn and said it would not close most of its showrooms after all.