Business this week
Donald Trump lifted a deadline of March 1st for China to agree to concessions on trade, after which he had threatened to increase tariffs on $200bn worth of Chinese exports from 10% to 25%. The president tweeted that “substantial progress” was being made in negotiations with the Chinese and that he expected to meet his counterpart, Xi Jinping, to sign a deal in the coming weeks. No details were provided, but one of the promises China has reportedly made is not to depreciate its currency. A weak yuan makes Chinese exports cheaper.

The Shanghai stockmarket rose by 5.6% in response to the suspension of tariffs, its best day in three years. Investor sentiment was also lifted by comments from Mr Xi about quickening the pace of development in China’s financial services industry.

General Electric agreed to sell its biotechnology business to Danaher, a health-services group, for $21bn. It is the biggest step taken to streamline GE under Larry Culp, who became chief executive last October and was Danaher’s boss until 2014. The deal was welcomed by the conglomerate’s weary investors; the proceeds of the sale will go towards reducing GE’s debt.

The share price of Kraft Heinz plunged by 27% after the food company booked a $15.4bn write-down, in part because its key Kraft and Oscar Mayer divisions were overvalued. It also revealed that the Securities and Exchange Commission had opened an investigation into its accounting practices. Warren Buffett, who helped engineer the merger of Heinz with Kraft Foods in 2015, admitted that he had overpaid for his investment company’s stake in the business.

“A bridge over Brexit”
Regulators in America and Britain announced a long-term agreement to ensure that the transatlantic derivatives market, which accounts for the vast majority of global derivatives contracts, is not disrupted by Brexit, whatever form it takes. The pact covers both the trading and clearing of derivatives between the two countries. European regulators have taken steps to allow eu derivative contracts to be cleared in London in the event of a no-deal Brexit, but the arrangement is temporary.

America’s Justice Department conceded defeat after a federal appeals-court dismissed its attempt to overturn at&t’s merger with Time Warner, describing the government’s arguments as “unpersuasive”. The merger was approved by a lower court last year.

In a surprise development, the Dutch government revealed that it had built a stake of 12.7% in Air France-klm’s holding company, and would increase it to a size similar to that of the French government’s stake in the business, which is 14.3%. Disagreements between the two governments over the future of Air France-klm have escalated, with the Dutch keen to protect jobs at Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport. The French complained that the Dutch had not informed them about the investment.

Barrick Gold launched an $18bn hostile bid for Newmont Mining, a smaller rival in the gold industry. Newmont retorted that its pending acquisition of Goldcorp, another mining firm, offered “superior benefits” to shareholders.

Not just any food
In a challenge to Amazon’s ambitions in the online-grocery market in Britain, Ocado, a leader in online-supermarket technology, struck a deal to deliver Marks & Spencer’s food products from 2020. Ocado will then cease selling goods from Waitrose, another upmarket food retailer, which has supplied Ocado with posh nosh since it started home deliveries in 2002. Last year Ocado signed an agreement with Kroger, America’s biggest supermarket chain, to develop its online-grocery business.

The name Merrill Lynch is to disappear. Bank of America bought the investment bank, which started out in 1915 and became one of the biggest firms on Wall Street, during the financial crisis. It had rebranded the business as Bank of America Merrill Lynch, though many investors clung to the old namesake. The wealth-management side will now be known simply as Merrill, and investment banking will fall under the BOFA brand.

Exxon Mobil reportedly asked the Securities and Exchange Commission (sec) to block a shareholder vote at its annual meeting on a measure that would oblige it to set targets for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions in line with the Paris accord on climate change. The oil giant argues that the measure is an attempt to “micromanage” its operations, and “reflects a misunderstanding” of energy markets.

Elon Musk got into more hot water with the SEC when he tweeted inaccurate production forecasts for Tesla’s cars, violating part of last year’s settlement with the regulator about not disseminating misleading information about the company. The SEC asked a court to hold Mr Musk in contempt.