The S&P 500 index hit a new high. Stock markets have broadly recovered from their drubbing in 2018. The S&P 500 has registered its best start to a year since 1987. Shares in tech companies fared particularly badly last year, but the NASDAQ has also reached a new record. 

South Korea’s economy unexpectedly shrank in the first quarter, by 0.3% compared with the previous three months, the worst performance since the financial crisis. Korean exports have fallen sharply.

The British government reportedly gave the go ahead for Huawei to supply equipment for Britain’s 5G networks. The controversial decision comes after America urged its allies not to use telecoms hardware made by Huawei, which Washington believes to be a security threat because of alleged ties to China’s army. Huawei will provide antennas and other transmission equipment for Britain’s 5G infrastructure, but it is banned from more sensitive parts of the networks that handle customer data.

Twitter post
Investors were delighted with Twitter’s earnings. The social media company reported its sixth successive quarterly profit on the back of a surge in revenues, to $787m. Its measure of daily users, counting only those who see ads, rose to 134m. Twitter said its improved performance was explained in part by weeding out abusive content, around 40% of which is now detected by machine learning algorithms.

Jared Kushner, Donald Trump’s son-in-law and adviser, said a long-delayed peace plan for Israelis and Palestinians will be unveiled in June.

The world’s largest drone delivery network was launched in Ghana. Zipline, an American startup, will distribute vaccines and other medical supplies by operating 600 drone flights a day.

Vladimir Putin played host to Kim Jong Un, the leader of North Korea, in his first visit to Russia. After the apparent failure of his negotiations with Donald Trump, the North Korean dictator may be looking for a new friend.

The power of fame
Volodymyr Zelensky was elected president of Ukraine, trouncing the incumbent, Petro Poroshenko, with an astonishing 73% of the vote. A comedian whose political experience consisted of playing a president on TV, Mr Zelensky now has to deal with a war in the east of the country, corrupt oligarchs and a disenchanted electorate. It was a rare democratic transfer of power in the former Soviet Union.