The future of cars
Big carmakers are placing vast bets on battery power

In 1900 one in three cars on American roads ran on volts. Then oil began gushing out of Texas. Cheaper than batteries, and easier to top up, petrol fuelled the rise of mass-produced automobiles. Cost and worries about limited range have kept electric vehicles (EVs) in a niche ever since. Tesla, which has made battery power sexy again in the past decade, produced just 250,000 units last year, a fraction of what Volkswagen or Toyota churn out annually. For every one of the 2m or so pure evs and plug-in hybrids, which combine batteries and internal-combustion engines (ICEs), sold in 2018, the world’s carmakers shifted 50 petrol or diesel cars.

EV sales are, however, accelerating as quickly as electric motors themselves. Some industry-watchers reckon that they will account for nearly 15% of the global total by 2025. By then, one in five new cars in China will run on batteries, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, a consultancy. The chief reason such optimistic forecasts no longer look outlandish is the entry into the electric race of the car industry’s juggernauts. A survey by Reuters in January put the industry’s total planned EV-related spending worldwide (including on batteries) at around $300bn over the next five to ten years. From gmand Geely to Mercedes and Nissan, big carmakers all want to turn out millions of such cars—and turn a profit doing so. Their strategies range from cautious to headstrong.

Sentence:
For every one of the 2m or so pure evs and plug-in hybrids, which combine batteries and internal-combustion engines (ices), sold in 2018, the world’s carmakers shifted 50 petrol or diesel cars.
2018年，全球约有200万辆纯电动汽车和插电式混合动力车(混合了电池和内燃机)销售，其中每售出一辆，全球汽车制造商就换掉50辆汽油或柴油汽车。

The chief reason such optimistic forecasts no longer look outlandish is the entry into the electric race of the car industry’s juggernauts.
如此乐观的预测不再显得稀奇古怪的主要原因是汽车行业巨头们开始进入电动汽车的竞争。

Their strategies range from cautious to headstrong.
他们的策略从谨慎到固执不等。（有的谨慎，有的坚定）