Pete Buttigieg officially launched his campaign to be the Democrats’ presidential candidate.Mr Buttigieg has surprised primary watchers by running well against better known rivals in the party’s crowded field of nominees, quite an achievement for the mayor of South Bend, Indiana.

It’s time for a new generation of American leadership.
America is more than a broken Washington, D.C. and 2020 is about more than the next four years. Our country is changing, and what matters most is how we will rise to meet the challenges ahead in our economy, our society, and our politics.
When Pete makes a decision, he doesn’t focus on how it will play out over the next news cycle or the next election. He thinks about how our choices today will impact everyday life in our country, tomorrow, and in 2054 — the year he will reach the current age of the current president.
That’s the kind of vision America needs right now.

Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of America’s House of Representatives, warned the British government that there would be “no chance whatsoever” of a free-trade deal with America if Brexit caused any disruption to the two-decade-old Anglo- Irish peace agreement.The peace deal depends on an open border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland—something EU membership conveniently supplied.

Donald Trump blocked a bipartisan resolution in Congress to end American military aid to Saudi Arabia in the Yemen war.It was only the second veto of his presidency.

The first challenger to Donald Trump emerged for the Republican nomination.The long shot bid is from William Weld, a moderate and former governor of Massachusetts.Mr Trump raised $30m for his campaign in the first quarter, rivalling the combined amount of the top two Democrats.

Terry Gou, the boss of Foxconn, which assembles iPhones for Apple, said he would run for president in Taiwan. He is seeking the nomination of the Kuomintang party, which is friendlier to China than the ruling Democratic Progressive Party. Foxconn has many factories in China.

Both Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un mused publicly about another summit to discuss North Korea’s promise to relinquish nuclear weapons and long-range missiles in exchange for security guarantees and aid.
 
Malaysia agreed to resume construction of a high-speed rail line after the Chinese consortium building it cut the price.Malaysia’s new government had cancelled the project last year, saying the country could not afford it.

Sentence:
Mr Buttigieg has surprised primary watchers by running well against better known rivals in the party’s crowded field of nominees, quite an achievement for the mayor of South Bend, Indiana.
Buttigieg在党内候选人众多的竞争对手中表现出色，令初选观察人士感到意外。对于印第安纳州南本德市市长而言，这是一个相当大的成就。

Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of America’s House of Representatives, warned the British government that there would be “no chance whatsoever” of a free-trade deal with America if Brexit caused any disruption to the two-decade-old Anglo- Irish peace agreement.
美国众议院议长南希•佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)警告英国政府，如果英国脱欧对已有20年历史的英爱和平协议造成任何破坏，英国“根本不可能”与美国达成自由贸易协议。

The peace deal depends on an open border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland—something EU membership conveniently supplied.
和平协议取决于北爱尔兰和爱尔兰共和国之间的开放边界，而这正是欧盟成员国的便利条件。

Donald Trump blocked a bipartisan resolution in Congress to end American military aid to Saudi Arabia in the Yemen war.
特朗普在国会阻止了一项旨在结束美国在也门战争中向沙特阿拉伯提供军事援助的两党决议。

Mr Trump raised $30m for his campaign in the first quarter, rivalling the combined amount of the top two Democrats.
今年第一季度，特朗普为自己的竞选筹集了3000万美元，与排名前两位的民主党人的总和不相上下。

Malaysia agreed to resume construction of a high-speed rail line after the Chinese consortium building it cut the price.
马来西亚同意恢复一条高铁线路的建设，此前建设该线路的中国财团降价。