Politics this week

India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, announced that the armed forces had successfully tested an anti satellite missile; he declared India to be a “space power”. Opposition politicians dismissed the test as an electoral stunt.

After almost two years investigating Russian interference in America’s presidential election of 2016,Robert Mueller presented his report to William Barr, the attorney general, who released a summary. The special counsel found no collusion between anyone on Donald Trump’s campaign and the Russians who had meddled in the election. Questions about whether the president tried to obstruct justice were left “unresolved”. Democrats were not pleased; they want Mr Barr to release the full report to Congress.

In a sharp reversal of its earlier position, the Justice Department said it would now support striking down the whole of Obamacare, rather than certain aspects of it. The health-care act is going through a tortuous legal appeals process and will probably end up before the Supreme Court.

Mr Trump caused confusion when he tweeted that he had overturned “additional largescale sanctions” against North Korea. That led to much head-scratching, since no such sanctions had been announced. He may have been thinking of planned measures, or of penalties for Chinese firms involved in sanctions busting.

Historical revision
Mexico’s president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, asked Spain to apologise for crimes committed against indigenous Mexicans by the conquistadors 500 years ago. He also asked the Vatican to say sorry. Spain refused to apologise, saying the conquest “cannot be judged in the light of contemporary considerations”.

Two Russian military planes with some 100 troops and tonnes of equipment aboard arrived in Caracas,Venezuela’s capital. Russia backs Nicolás Maduro, the country’s left wing dictator. America’s secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, told the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, that “the United States and regional countries will not stand idly by as Russia exacerbates tensions in Venezuela.”

Michel Temer, Brazil’s president until this year,was released from jail four days after being arrested at the request of prosecutors investigating corruption. He was not charged with a crime.

An ever-present danger
Israel exchanged heavy fire with Palestinian militants in Gaza. The fighting started when a rocket from Gaza hit a house north of Tel Aviv. No deaths were reported. Binyamin Netanyahu, Israel’s prime minister, cut short a trip to America to deal with the crisis.

Donald Trump signed a proclamation recognising Israel’s control of the Golan Heights, which it captured from Syria in 1967. Arab countries rejected the move, which was seen as a political gift to Mr Netanyahu just weeks before Israel holds an election.

An American-backed Kurdish and Arab militia ousted the jihadists of Islamic State from their last foothold in Syria. IS now resembles a more conventional terrorist group, with lots of money but no territory.

After weeks of protests against the ailing president, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, Algeria’s army chief, Ahmed Gaid Salah, demanded that he be declared unfit to rule. Mr Salah had previously stood by Mr Bouteflika’s attempt to remain president while holding a national conference on Algeria’s political future. Many Algerians think Mr Salah should go, too.

The UN investigated a massacre of Fulani villagers in central Mali in which perhaps 160 people were killed by militias from the Dogon ethnic group. Intercommunal violence has led to as many as 600 deaths in the region over the past year.

Estimates of the number of deaths caused by a tropical cyclone in Mozambique increased to the thousands. Rescue workers believe that several thousand people have died and that their bodies have been washed out to sea. Another 180 are thought to have died in Zimbabwe.

A close-run thing
Initial results from Thailand’s election suggested that parties opposed to the current military junta had won roughly half the seats in the lower house of parliament. Leaders of the biggest such party, Pheu Thai, claimed the right to form a government. But they also expressed fears that the Election Commission would find ways to deprive them of their victory.

The ruling Liberal Party won a third term in government in Australia’s most populous state, New South Wales. The result defied the national polls, which show the Liberals trailing the opposition Labor Party, giving them hope ahead of the national election due in May.

Sentence:
Mr Trump caused confusion when he tweeted that he had overturned “additional largescale sanctions” against North Korea.
特朗普在推特上表示，他推翻了针对朝鲜的“额外大规模制裁”，这引起了混乱。

That led to much head-scratching, since no such sanctions had been announced.
这导致了许多令人挠头的事情，因为没有宣布这样的制裁。

He may have been thinking of planned measures, or of penalties for Chinese firms involved in sanctions busting.
他可能一直在考虑采取计划中的措施，或者对参与破坏制裁的中国企业进行惩罚。

Spain refused to apologise, saying the conquest “cannot be judged in the light of contemporary considerations”.
西班牙拒绝道歉，称这场征服“不能以当代的考虑来评判”。

in the light of
根据，按照
The fact can't be judged in the light of your stance.
She is wrong in the light of his stance.

A close-run thing
势均力敌，短兵相接
The main conclusion they are likely to draw is that the presidential vote will be a close-run thing.
他们可能得出的主要结论是，总统选举将是一场势均力敌的选举。

India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, announced that the armed forces had successfully tested an anti satellite missile;
印度总理纳伦德拉莫迪(Narendra Modi)宣布，军方已成功测试了一枚反卫星导弹;

he declared India to be a “space power”.
他宣布印度是一个“太空强国”。

Opposition politicians dismissed the test as an electoral stunt.
反对派政客将此次测试斥为选举噱头。