Investors pored over Uber’s prospectus, which it released ahead of its forthcoming IPO. Overall revenues hit $11.3bn last year, though growth is slowing at Uber’s core ridehailing service. Uber Eats, its food-delivery service, accounted for 13% of sales, a big jump from the previous year. Uber is aiming for a $100bn stockmarket valuation, which would make it the biggest flotation in five years.

Disney took the wraps off its new video-streaming service, entering a market dominated by Netflix and Amazon. Disney+ will launch in November in America and in later months worldwide. It will feature Disney’s own rich catalogue of films, as well as the Marvel, Pixar and Star Wars franchises, and cost half as much as Netflix. Disney is clearly no dumbo when it comes to price wars.

Following years of costly litigation, Apple and Qualcomm settled their dispute over royalties and reached a six-year licensing agreement. Their quarrel had revolved around patent fees for the use of Qualcomm’s chips in Apple’s iPhone. While the dispute dragged on, Apple had switched to Intel to supply it with chips, but Intel had encountered problems designing chips for next-generation 5g phones and now plans to exit that business.

The Chinese economy grew by 6.4% in the first quarter, year on year. That was a bit better than markets had expected, possibly reflecting the easing of trade tensions between America and China. The negotiations on a deal to resolve that conflict are in their final stages.

Vocabulary:
1 one-off:
一次性事物，一次性的
And Wells Fargo, which is trying to put a series of scandals behind it, saw its income rise by 16% compared with the same three months last year, to $5.9bn, thanks to one-off gains.
富国银行(Wells Fargo)正试图将一系列丑闻抛诸身后，由于一次性收益，其收入较去年同期增长16%，至59亿美元。

2 ripple:
a feeling that spreads through a person or a group because of something that has happened
逐渐扩散的情绪
A ripple of excitement went through the crowd as he came on stage. 他走上舞台的时候，人群一阵骚动。
The ripples from the grounding of Boeing’s 737 max aircraft following two fatal crashes continued to be felt across the airline industry.
两起致命坠机事件后，波音737 max飞机停飞的余波继续波及整个航空业。

3 count:
to include someone or something in a total
把…计算在内；包括
There are more than two thousand of us, not counting the crew.
我们有两千多人，不包括工作人员在内。
count sb/sth among sth
I count Jules and Ady among my closest friends. 我把朱尔斯和埃迪算作我最亲密的朋友。
The deal goes some way in helping the French advertising group, which counts Saatchi & Saatchi among its assets, to meet the challenge posed by Google, Facebook and other online advertising platforms.
这笔交易在一定程度上帮助这家法国广告集团(将Saatchi & Saatchi的资产计算在内)应对谷歌、Facebook和其它在线广告平台带来的挑战。

4 take the wraps off sth
to show or tell people about something new or secret
揭开某事物的面纱，把某事物展示出来[公之于众]
Disney took the wraps off its new video-streaming service, entering a market dominated by Netflix and Amazon.
迪士尼推出了新的视频流媒体服务，进入了由Netflix和亚马逊(Amazon)主导的市场。