Two cities tussle over who makes the tastiest Sichuan hotpot

Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, has an ancient rivalry with Chongqing, a city to its south-east. Residents of Chongqing accuse their Chengdu cousins of being pompous. The people of Chongqing are hotheads, Chengdu dwellers shoot back. Both cities share a love of spice-laden Sichuan cuisine, which in recent decades has conquered Chinese palates. But they are at war over which has the best Sichuan hotpot—a type of diy-cooking that involves boiling vegetables and slices of meat in a communal broth with chillies and numbing peppercorns.

A private museum in Chongqing, opened several years ago, makes the case for Chongqing-style hotpot. It describes how it developed from a method used to make cheap offcuts of meat taste delicious. But Chengdu is playing catch-up. In January the city sold a plot of land on condition that the developer build a hotpot museum on part of it. Such presumptuous behaviour will test the famous fiery tempers of Chongqing-ites. Chengdu may be the capital of Sichuan cuisine’s eponymous province, but Chongqing was part of Sichuan for long periods of history until 1997. It is now the capital of its own province-sized region, which is also called Chongqing.

The two cities are among many in China with their own styles of hotpot. The stories behind these dishes reveal how different regions like to see themselves. Chongqing’s is said to highlight the ingenuity of the proletariat. Other places describe their hotpots as the sophisticated food of emperors. Some say theirs have military origins: warriors on the march boiling scraps in their helmets. Hotpot contents are equally diverse. To keep warm in winter, Beijingers boil fatty lamb in a berry broth. Mint-suffused Yunnanese hotpot reflects the province’s links with South-East Asia.

But Sichuan-style broths are the most commonly savoured in China. In recent years their popularity has been booming. China has around 350,000 hotpot restaurants. About 40,000 of them are said to be in the Chongqing region alone. Hotpot restaurants in China are more profitable than other kinds, according to iiMedia, a consultancy. Haidilao, a well-known Sichuanbased hotpot chain, raised nearly $1bn when it was listed on the Hong Kong exchange in September. The company is taking its hotpot global. It expanded into Canada in December. Branches are set to open in London later this year.

The more adventurous tastes of younger Chinese are fuelling demand. Onethird of customers at hotpot restaurants in China are aged between 25 and 30, iiMedia says. They often have little time to cook at home and are unburdened by child-care duties. They like the social aspects of sharing hotpots. Round-the-clock restaurants are sprouting up to allow leisurely feasting.

Not all Chinese warm to hotpot. Some older Sichuanese disown it altogether. They complain that it is causing an escalation of chilli-use in other dishes that drowns out subtle flavours. Chua Lam, a celebrity food critic based in Hong Kong, caused a stir in December when he wished hotpot would disappear from the face of the Earth. He dismissed it as “the most uncultured form of cooking”, requiring no real culinary knowledge.

But Chengdu’s plans for a museum suggest that Sichuan hotpot is not only growing in popularity, but is also becoming iconic. If it can set the West on fire, officials may hope it will become a delicious new source of Chinese soft power. There will be plenty of glory for both Chengdu and Chongqing to bask in if that happens.

Sentence:
Some regional stereotypes are harboured only by people from a particular area.
有些地区的刻板印象只存在于某一特定地区的人身上。

Some lawyers say a legal loophole is partly to blame.
一些律师表示，法律漏洞是部分原因。

The people of Chongqing are hotheads, Chengdu dwellers shoot back.
重庆人是急性子，成都人则会回击。

They like the social aspects of sharing hotpots.
他们喜欢共享火锅的社交功能。

Not all Chinese warm to hotpot.
并非所有中国人都喜欢吃火锅。

Some older Sichuanese disown it altogether.
一些上了年纪的四川人完全不承认它。

They complain that it is causing an escalation of chilli-use in other dishes that drowns out subtle flavours.
他们抱怨说，这导致辣椒在其他菜肴中的使用增加，掩盖了微妙的味道。

Chua Lam, a celebrity food critic based in Hong Kong, caused a stir in December when he wished hotpot would disappear from the face of the Earth.
去年12月，香港著名美食评论家蔡林(Chua Lam)希望火锅能从地球上消失，引起了轩然大波。

He dismissed it as “the most uncultured form of cooking”, requiring no real culinary knowledge.
他认为这是“最没有文化的烹饪方式”，不需要真正的烹饪知识。

But Chengdu’s plans for a museum suggest that Sichuan hotpot is not only growing in popularity, but is also becoming iconic.
但是，成都的博物馆计划表明，四川火锅不仅越来越受欢迎，而且正在成为标志性的东西。

If it can set the West on fire, officials may hope it will become a delicious new source of Chinese soft power.
如果它能点燃西方，官方可能希望它将成为中国软实力的一个美味的新来源。

There will be plenty of glory for both Chengdu and Chongqing to bask in if that happens.
如果能实现这一目标，成都和重庆都将获得巨大的荣耀。
bask in :
to enjoy the approval or attention that you are getting from other people
沉浸在〔别人的赞许或关注中〕
[+ in]
She basked in the admiration of the media. 她沉醉在媒体的吹捧中。