Business this week

Energy-related carbon emissions grew by 1.7% in 2018 to a historic high of 33bn tonnes, according to the International Energy Agency. That was in part because of adverse weather, which increased demand for heating and cooling. China’s emissions were up by 2.5%, and America’s by 3.1%. Emissions declined in Britain, France, Germany and Japan.

At a product launch focused squarely on digital services (rather than a new device) Apple unveiled its videostreaming Apple TV+ app. Featuring original programmes as well as content from cable channels, such as HBO, the app will be available on certain smart televisions and on Amazon Fire and Roku. The move into Netflix’s territory comes as Apple faces slowing demand for the iPhone.

Purdue Pharma, which makes OxyContin, an opioid painkiller blamed for a surge in addiction and overdose deaths in America, paid $270m to settle a civil lawsuit brought by the state of Oklahoma. Dozens of lawsuits have been lodged against Purdue and other drug companies in America. Oklahoma claimed that Purdue’s aggressive marketing of Oxy-Contin drove the epidemic of opioid addiction. Charitable trusts funded by the Sackler family, which owns Purdue, are on the defensive; several museums say they will not accept further donations.

Moore’s law
Donald Trump said he would nominate Stephen Moore to the board of the Federal Reserve. Mr Moore founded the Club for Growth, which backs politicians who pursue lower taxes and smaller government. He is a controversial choice, having called for the Fed to target commodity prices and described Jerome Powell, its chairman, as “totally incompetent” (he says he now regrets making the remark).

The board of Swedbank sacked its chief executive, shortly before a shareholders’ meeting that was going to discuss her fate. A day earlier Swedish authorities had raided the bank’s offices in Stockholm as part of a growing moneylaundering investigation, amid allegations that €135bn ($152bn) of money from mostly Russian clients had passed through Swedbank’s branch in Estonia. A regulator in New York state has also reportedly opened inquiries into Swedbank on several fronts.

After another plunge in the lira, Turkey’s central bank said it would use its “liquidity management tools” to prop up the currency. The banking authority, meanwhile, began an investigation into JPMorgan Chase, because of what it described as the bank’s “manipulative” advice to sell the lira. Data showing a drop in Turkey’s foreign-currency reserves triggered more volatile trading.

Criticism of the relationship between Boeing and aviation regulators continued to mount following the crash of a second 737 max 8 aircraft. The acting head of the Federal Aviation Administration was hauled in front of Congress, where he defended the plane’s certification process. To add to the pressure on Boeing, Airbus sealed a huge order for 300 jets from China.

The European Parliament voted in favour of a controversial digital copyright law. Two bits of the new directive have drawn the most ire from opponents: getting search engines and news aggregators to pay for links from news websites, and holding internet companies responsible for material published without permission. On the latter measure, websites such as YouTube worry they will need to implement pre-emptive blocking to avoid being sued.

The British government said that telecoms gear made by Huawei remains riddled with bugs and security flaws, and that the Chinese firm shows little sign of addressing the problems. America has publicly warned its allies against using Huawei’s kit, citing espionage worries, though not all have followed its advice.

Ahead of Lyft’s long-awaited IPO, Levi Strauss made a successful return to the stockmarket. The jeansmaker’s share price did a zippy trade on its first day, closing well above the offer price of $17.

Uber, which is expected to make its stockmarket debut next month, struck a deal to buy Careem, a rival ride-hailing firm that operates in 15 countries in and around the Middle East. Valued at $3.1bn, it is Uber’s biggest acquisition.

On a mission
American boots might be back on the Moon sooner than had been thought. Mike Pence, America’s vice-president, said the administration aimed to put someone on the lunar surface by 2024, four years ahead of NASA’s estimate of 2028 (and before the end of a possible second term for Donald Trump). That is one giant leap in ambitions. A new launch system to propel crews into deep space has been plagued by delays. If Mr Pence wants to win what he said is a new “space race”, he might have to turn to SpaceX or other commercial rocket-providers.

Sentence:
Featuring original programmes as well as content from cable channels, such as HBO, the app will be available on certain smart televisions and on Amazon Fire and Roku.
这款应用以原创节目以及HBO等有线电视频道的内容为特色，将可在某些智能电视、亚马逊Fire和Roku上使用。

Criticism of the relationship between Boeing and aviation regulators continued to mount following the crash of a second 737 max 8 aircraft.
在第二架波音737 max 8客机坠毁后，外界对波音与航空监管机构关系的批评持续升温。