Ford announced 7,000 white collar job cuts, the latest round of lay-offs in the carmaker’s effort to become more nimble in a fast-changing industry. It has now shrunk its management structure by 20% in its “goal to reduce bureaucracy”.

Pinterest’s share price struggled to recover from the battering it took after the company reported a bigger-thanexpected quarterly loss and a sales forecast below estimates. The social network is one of a number of tech unicorns to float on the stockmarket this year, completing a successful IPO by comparison with some of its peers.

Qualcomm’s share price plunged by 11% after a judge in California ruled that it had illegally crushed competition in the market for phone chips by charging “unreasonably high” royalty rates. The decision is a blow for the chip firm, coming soon after it had reached a settlement with Apple. The judge ordered the company to change its practices and subjected it to seven years of monitoring. Championed by Donald Trump, Qualcomm is the leading provider of 5g chips in America.

Ajit Pai, the chairman of America’s Federal Communications Commission, gave his approval to the planned merger of T-Mobile and Sprint, after they offered assurances to expand their 5g network to rural areas (the full fcc still has to vote). The merger, announced more than a year ago, also has to get the nod from the Justice Department. 

In the furnace 
British Steelwas declared insolvent after talks with the government to secure another bail-out broke down. Among its many woes, the company was hit by uncertainty over Brexit, which led to a slump in orders from mainland Europe.

A sale of shares valued TransferWise at $3.5bn, making it Europe’s most valuable fintech startup. Founded in London by two Estonians, the firm reduces transaction costs through a peer-to-peer money transfer service.

There was some head-scratching this week, as data showed Japan’s economy growing by 2.1% in the first quarter at an annualised rate, defying expectations of a slight contraction. Most of the growth was explained by a huge drop in imports. Because they fell at a faster rate than exports, GDP rose. Like exports, private consumption and business investment also declined, adding to worries about the health of the economy ahead of a planned increase to the consumption tax in October.