Chinese companies abroad

TikTok is not the only social-media app to perturb regulators concerned about data privacy, fake news or dangerous content. But there is another reason for the attention: TikTok is Chinese. The angst surrounding its parent company, Bytedance, and China’s other tech titans is a measure of their rising global relevance. Five of the ten most popular apps used by Indians last year were Chinese. Two in five TikTok users live in India, Bytedance’s largest market outside China, ahead of America. Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent—technology behemoths collectively known as the BATS— hold stakes in 150 companies abroad, according to Abacus, a research arm of the South China Morning Post, a newspaper. Alibaba has 56 data centres overseas. Tencent owns 17.5% of Snap, creator of a popular American messaging app, and 7.5% of Spotify, a Swedish music-streaming service.

No firm has animated worries about China Inc’s overseas forays more than Huawei, its most successful global company. Governments worry that its telecoms gear might enable spying on behalf of the Chinese state (see Briefing). Scrutiny of Huawei is understandable, given the strategic importance of 5G. But “the Huawei effect”, as Samm Sacks of New America, a thinktank in Washington, DC, calls it, is infecting internet and consumer-electronics firms hitherto viewed as innocuous, because their technologies were regarded as less important and their links to the Communist party looser.

Authorities are beginning to restrict not just Chinese companies’ investments, but their products. In 2017 American officials warned that those of DJI, a leading dronemaker, were probably sending data on critical infrastructure back to China’s government; the US Army barred DJI drones from its bases. In 2018 American  government agencies were banned from using cameras made by Hikvision, the world’s biggest manufacturer of CCTV kit. 

It is not just America picking on its chief geopolitical rival. Defence ministries in Australia and India have prohibited staff from using WeChat, Tencent’s messaging app. The Australian Strategic Policy Institute has urged the app’s 1.5m Australian users to beware of propaganda and censorship. In March India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party complained to the election commission that Bytedance’s social-media apps were interfering in elections. It wants to ban a Bytedance news aggregator called Helo. Fearing Chinese propaganda ahead of its own general election in 2020, Taiwan may ban Baidu’s IQIYI, called China’s Netflix, and stop Tencent from launching its own video-streaming service on the island (which China views as a part of its territory). Israel, where Chinese investors accounted for 12% of tech deals in the first nine months of 2018, is thinking of creating a CFIUS -like oversight body.

Sentence:
Last summer America’s Congress beefed up the screening regime for foreign investments, making life harder for acquisitive firms from China.
去年夏天，美国国会加强了对外国投资的审查制度，使得那些想从中国收购的公司日子更加难过。
