The IMF said Iran’s GDP would contract by 6% this year, caused in large part by American sanctions on Iranian oil exports. Annual inflation could reach 37%, the fund warned. The crisis is fuelling popular discontent with the government and ruling clerics.

Done, but not dusted William Barr, America’s attorney-general, was grilled in Congress over his handling of the publication of the Mueller report. Mr Barr issued a summary of the report before its full publication, but two letters emerged this week from Robert Mueller criticising that summary for its lack of context.

Juan Guaidó, who is recognised as interim president of Venezuela bymany democracies, appeared outside an air-force base in Caracas and urged the armed forces to overthrow the socialist dictatorship of Nicolás Maduro. Leopoldo López, an opposition figure kept under house arrest by the regime, appeared with Mr Guaidó after being freed by security personnel. America reiterated its support for Mr Guaidó. Backed by Russia and Cuba, Mr Maduro said he had defeated an attempted coup. Amid more protests, Mr Guaidó called for strikes to topple the government.

Unions staged a national strike in Argentina to protest against the austerity policies of Mauricio Macri, the president. Mr Macri’s popularity has taken a dive of late, and he is up for re-election in October. Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, a spendthrift populist ex-president, could unseat him, a prospect that scares investors.

China sentenced a Canadian citizen to death for drug-trafficking. It is the second time this year a Canadian has received a death sentence in China. Some observers think this is in reprisal for Canada arresting the finance director of Huawei, a Chinese telecoms- equipment company.

Reports of my death…
Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of Islamic State, appeared in a video for the first time since proclaiming the creation of a caliphate across parts of Iraq and Syria five years ago. (He has been heard in audio recordings since then.) In the new video Mr Baghdadi notes his group’s defeat at Baghuz, its last stronghold in Syria, but vows to fight on.

The White House said itwas working towards designating the Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist organisation. The decision would bring sanctions on whatwas once the world’s pre-eminent Islamist movement. Egypt’s president, Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, who toppled a Brotherhood-led government in 2013, reportedly requested the move.

The African Union extended a deadline imposed on coup leaders in Sudan to hand power to a civilian administration. The military juntawas initially given15 days. This has been extended by another 60 days.

The limits to friendship
China dropped its objection to a proposal in the unto list Masood Azhar, the leader of a Pakistani jihadist group, as a terrorist. This allowed the un to declare sanctions on Mr Azhar, including the freezing of his assets and a travel ban. His group, Jaish-e-Muhammad, claimed responsibility for a suicide-bombing that killed 40 soldiers in Indianadministered Kashmir in February. China had previously opposed such sanctions, apparently in deference to Pakistan, a close ally.

Akihito, the emperor of Japan, abdicated. He was succeeded by his son, Naruhito. Akihito won acclaim during his 30-year reign for apologising for Japan’s misdeeds in the second world war.

The Indonesian government declared its intention to move its capital. Jakarta, with a population of 30m, is congested and polluted. Although a new location has not yet been chosen, Palangkaraya, a city of 260,000 in the Indonesian part of Borneo, is being considered.