Huawei or the highway?

Bugs infest every piece of complex software but seem more common in Huawei’s gear than in competitors’ products. Evidence of Huawei’s lax attitude is everywhere, with thousands of snippets of unsafe code. One piece of kit, says the hcsec, used in mobile-phone base stations, contained 70 copies of four different versions of Openssl, a widely used set of cryptographic protocols designed to secure data travelling over networks. Researchers frequently find security flaws in Openssl, meaning that sticking to the newest versions is vital. Huawei’s kit, it seems, is at risk from hackers of all kinds, not just Chinese state-sponsored ones. Insiders blame this sloppiness at least partly on the same commercial agility that has made Huawei so popular among its customers for its speedy introduction of new products.

Huawei has promised to do better. In November, in response to criticism from the hcsec, it announced a $2bn overhaul of its software-development practices. David Wang, an executive at Huawei, reiterated that pledge after the latest round of brickbats, but said it would take three to five years. The hcsec takes a less rosy view, saying that “no material progress” had been made in fixing such issues since they were last raised a year ago. Worse, it says it has not seen anything to give it confidence that Huawei could meet the necessary standards, especially since similar promises made in 2012 appear to have led nowhere.

That alone might be enough to persuade countries that Huawei’s products are best left on the shelf. But there is one final complicating factor, says Rahim Tafazolli, who runs the 5G Innovation Centre at the University of Surrey. Gear from Huawei’s rivals has bugs, too, even if they are less common. Last year, for instance, faulty software in equipment made by Ericsson caused a day-long interruption in phone networks belonging to O2, a British operator, and SoftBank, a Japanese one. Among the best ways of limiting the damage that bugs—or hackers—can cause, says Mr Tafazolli, is to build resilient networks. And a way to do that is to use equipment from rival suppliers, so that a problem in one manufacturer’s devices does not bring down the entire network. But given the concentration in the market, any network keen on diversity will find it hard to avoid Huawei’s products.

British cyber-security officials say it is possible to finesse all these worries. One measure is to exclude Huawei from government networks. Another is to use it for less sensitive equipment at the edge of networks, such as transmission equipment, but not the more sensitive data-processing “core”. That is harder to do with 5G networks, in which more data-crunching happens closer to the network’s periphery, to boost speed. But monitoring of network activity can help flag anything suspicious, as can healthy scepticism about Huawei’s reassurances. Ian Levy, the ncsc’s technical director, has said it operates on the assumption that China does indeed attempt cyber-attacks against Britain and that its government can compel any Chinese firm, including Huawei, to do whatever it wants.

Trouble ahead
Britain’s experiences, and its willingness to make its conclusions public, are likely to influence other nations’ decisions about how to handle Huawei, particularly in the absence of anything similarly concrete from the Americans. But Huawei faces other pressures, too. In December Meng Wanzhou, the firm’s chief financial officer and daughter of its founder, Ren Zhengfei, was arrested in Canada at the behest of the Americans. She faces extradition on charges that she—and Huawei—conspired to dodge American sanctions on Iran. The firm is also accused of trying to steal trade secrets from T-Mobile, an American subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom.

Sentence:
The hcsec takes a less rosy view, saying that “no material progress” had been made in fixing such issues since they were last raised a year ago.
hcsec的看法则不那么乐观，称自一年前最后一次提出此类问题以来，在解决这些问题方面“没有实质性进展”。

Worse, it says it has not seen anything to give it confidence that Huawei could meet the necessary standards, especially since similar promises made in 2012 appear to have led nowhere.
更糟糕的是，该公司表示，它没有看到任何迹象能让它相信华为能够达到必要的标准，尤其是在2012年做出的类似承诺似乎毫无成效之后。

That alone might be enough to persuade countries that Huawei’s products are best left on the shelf.
仅凭这一点，就足以让各国相信，华为的产品最好束之高阁。

America, the incumbent superpower, is under no illusions about the relationship between technology and power, of both the hard and soft sort.
美国，这个目前的超级大国，对技术和实力之间的关系，无论是硬实力还是软实力，都不抱任何幻想。

Neither is China, which aspires to the same status.
中国也不是，它渴望获得同样的地位。

square off
to get ready to fight someone
摆好打斗的架势
These days America and China square off atop planet spanning supply chains that blur the distinction between “Western” and “Chinese” companies.
如今，美国和中国在跨越模糊了“西方”和“中国”企业之间界限的供应链上展开了激烈的较量。

For all its flaws, the firm—and, therefore, China— will end up building a great deal of the infrastructure on which the world will increasingly depend.
尽管存在种种缺陷，但这家公司——因此也包括中国——最终将建设大量基础设施，而世界将日益依赖这些基础设施。