American Icarus
Charles Van Doren, TV quiz whizz, died on April 9th, aged 93

He seemed a very nervy contestant. Standing in the soundproof glass booth on the set of “Twenty-One”, NBC’s flagship quiz show during the winter of 1956-57, he’d bite his lip, furrow his eyebrows, blow out his cheeks. “Oh my goodness!” he would sigh, and then pull out a big white handkerchief and mop his face all over, taking care to pat not smear, as he’d been instructed.

Week after week he returned to grapple with questions that seemed to get ever harder: about explorers and boxing and the American civil war, about newspaper history, the boundaries of the Black Sea and what happened to the six wives of Henry VIII. As his winnings grew—to $129,000 (worth $1.2m today), more than anybody had ever won on this new klondike, the television quiz show—America became transfixed. Nearly 50m people tuned in each week. Geritol, manufacturers of a tonic for “tired blood” and the show’s sponsors, came to believe their own punchline: “Feel stronger fast.” Women wrote to him in their thousands, more than a few proposing marriage. He appeared on the cover of Time.

The next public part he played, three years later, was even more nerve-racking. It was in Washington, DC, rather than New York. Instead of the nation, it was the eyes of the House special subcommittee on legislative oversight that were on him. “I would give almost anything I have to reverse the course of my life in the last three years,” he told the congressmen. “I have deceived my friends, and I had millions of them…I was involved, deeply involved, in a deception.” The road to perdition and back would be a long one. Charles Lincoln Van Doren was clever; no one doubted that. Few had known how deeply flawed he was.

He was born into America’s intellectual aristocracy. His mother was a novelist and former editor at the Nation; his father a beloved and respected teacher who won a Pulitzer prize for poetry and praise for a biography of Nathaniel Hawthorne. His uncle also won a Pulitzer, and his aunt was the influential books editor of the Herald Tribune. Over summer lunches at the long table in their country garden in Connecticut, young Van Dorens fought to be the first to identify lines from Shakespeare. “Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall” (“Measure for Measure”); “To do a great right, do a little wrong” (“The Merchant of Venice”).

Young Charles was a speed reader, getting through two or three books a day. His parents gave him free rein—and he ran. The High School of Music & Art in New York, a masters in astrophysics, a PHD in English, both from Columbia. “I believe nothing is of more vital importance to our civilisation than education.” He would follow his father and teach at Columbia, where they would share an office.

Reality television, then as now, was a form of hand-to-hand combat, though at first only the producers saw that. There had to be winners, of course, but also losers. Some came willingly. For Van Doren’s opponent, Herb Stempel, a clever boy from the Bronx with bad teeth, it was money. Offered the chance to make $25,000, he immediately said yes. For six weeks, he felt he was a star. People recognised him in the street; restaurants offered him free steaks.

Looking for someone to take on their champion, NBC gave Van Doren a call. But he resisted. “It’s not my world,” he told the producers. “My world is academe and I like it very much.” They asked how much he was making. “About $4,000 a year.” How could he bring up a family on that? Sensing that everyone had their weak spot, David Halberstam suggested in his book, “The Fifties”, the producers persisted. By appearing on national television he would be doing a great service to teachers. “You can be erudite and learned, but show that you don’t have to be an intellectual snob,” Mr Halberstam quotes one as saying.

Convinced that he might, at last, do something he could call his own, he signed. But after 14 weeks his reign came to an end (he lost to a lawyer called Vivienne Nearing whose husband he had beaten in an earlier round). NBC offered him a job as its special cultural correspondent. The pay was $50,000 a year. The brainy gladiator would be doing it for the children of America. After all, television was the largest classroom in the world.

Escaping from Stempel’s shadow was more difficult. The poor man from the Bronx had lost most of his winnings to a bookie who skipped town. When his own promised future in television failed to materialise, he began telling anyone who would listen that the shows were rigged with the contestants given the questions in advance. No one believed him, at least not at first.

But eventually the questions grew louder. Van Doren panicked. He lied to his family, even to his lawyer. He dissembled before his superiors. He sent a telegram to the congressional committee declaring his innocence, and then for a week he vanished. He took his car up to New England and drove round aimlessly from one town to another before holing up in his parents’ country house in Connecticut. There he pondered a letter from a complete stranger, a woman who’d seen him on television. “She admired my work there. She told me that the only way I could ever live with myself, and make up for what I had done—of course, she, too, did not know exactly what that was—was to admit it, clearly, openly, truly.”

Betrayal
A reading man, he would have known the story of Icarus, who flew too high on borrowed wings. As he would tell the congressmen in Washington, “I wanted to be a writer and a teacher of literature. I seemed to be moving farther and farther away from that aim.” Stempel stood at the back of the committee room, having taken the train down from New York at his own expense to watch Van Doren’s public mea culpa. Before the day was out, NBC had sacked him. Columbia too. He had broken the trust of America. Through his father (again), he found work as a jobbing editor at the “Encyclopedia Britannica”. He refused to co-operate with “The Quiz Show”, the film Robert Redford made nearly 40 years after the scandal broke. It was a long time before he taught again, but the lesson he took away lasted his whole life.

Sentence:
Women wrote to him in their thousands, more than a few proposing marriage.
成千上万的女性写信给他，其中不少人向他求婚。

He appeared on the cover of Time.
他登上了《时代》杂志的封面。

I would give almost anything I have to reverse the course of my life in the last three years.
为了扭转过去三年的生活轨迹，我几乎愿意付出任何代价。

Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall.(Measure for Measure)
有些人因罪恶而上升，有些人因美德而堕落。

In his play Measure for Measure Shakespeare makes mention of a garden surrounded by abrick wall. 
在他的戏剧《一报还一报》中，莎士比亚提到过一个由砖墙环绕的花园。

I believe nothing is of more vital importance to our civilisation than education.
我认为没有什么比教育对我们的文明更重要。

Reality television, then as now, was a form of hand-to-hand combat, though at first only the producers saw that.
当时和现在一样，电视真人秀也是一种肉搏战的形式，尽管一开始只有制片人看到了这一点。

She admired my work there.
她很欣赏我在那里的工作。

She told me that the only way I could ever live with myself, and make up for what I had done—of course, she, too, did not know exactly what that was—was to admit it, clearly, openly, truly.
她告诉我，我唯一能让自己活下去，弥补我所做的一切的方法——当然，她也不知道那究竟是什么——就是坦白承认，清楚地、公开地、真诚地承认。

public mea culpa
公开认错
Guo, however, made a tearful public mea culpa, saying, "I belong to the country." 
然而郭含泪做了自我检讨，并说“我服从祖国安排”。

It was a long time before he taught again, but the lesson he took away lasted his whole life.
过了好长一段时间，他才重新开始教书，但他吸取的教训持续了他的一生。