The operator of Britain’s power grid reported that the country went a whole week without using coal to generate electricity, the first time that has happened since the first coal-fired power station was opened in 1882. Britain gets most of its power now from gas, nuclear and wind sources.

Facebook said that London would be the base for staff working on its new mobile payments service, which will be available later this year on WhatsApp. The social-media company chose London because of the availability of fintech workers from countries where WhatsApp is widely used, such as India. Despite having 1.5bn users worldwide, the messaging app currently employs only 400 people.

Ahead of its eagerly awaited IPO, Uber had to navigate a one-day strike by drivers in America, Britain and Australia (the action was joined by drivers from Lyft). The workers sought publicity for their claim to better pay and conditions. They urged passengers not to use their apps, likening it to crossing a digital picket line.

Lyft released its first quarterly earnings report since floating on the stockmarket. The ridehailing company reported revenues of $776m for the first three months of the year, up by 95% compared with the same quarter last year. But its costs ballooned as it invested heavily in new aspects of its business, such as scooter rentals. Lyft’s underlying operating loss narrowed slightly to $216m (its overall net loss of $1.1bn included a charge for stock-based compensation). Worried about the lack of profits, investors sent its share price down by 11% in a day.