Descriptive Poems: II. Nature and Art
Seven Ages of Man
William Shakespeare (1564–1616)
 
From “As You Like It,” Act II. Sc. 7.

                    ALL the world ’s a stage,	
And all the men and women merely players:	
They have their exits and their entrances;	
And one man in his time plays many parts,	
His Acts being seven ages. At first the Infant,
Mewling and puking in the nurse’s arms.	
Then the whining School-boy, with his satchel	
And shining morning face, creeping like snail	
Unwillingly to school. And then the Lover,	
Sighing like furnace, with a woful ballad
Made to his mistress’ eyebrow. Then a Soldier,	
Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard;	
Jealous in honor, sudden and quick in quarrel,	
Seeking the bubble reputation	
Even in the cannon’s mouth. And then the Justice,
In fair round belly with good capon lined,	
With eyes severe, and beard of formal cut,	
Full of wise saws and modern instances,—	
And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts	
Into the lean and slippered Pantaloon,
With spectacles on nose, and pouch on side;	
His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide	
For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,	
Turning again toward childish treble, pipes	
And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,
That ends this strange eventful history,	
Is second childishness, and mere oblivion,—	
Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.	


The Seven Ages of Climate Man
A Shakespearean guide to how companies tackle climate change

“All the world’s a stage,” wrote William Shakespeare in his monologue, “The Seven Ages of Man”. Centuries later, that stage is on fire, to paraphrase Greta Thunberg, the 16-year-old Swedish climate-change activist who delivered a raw message to titans of industry in Davos this year that their companies were helping stoke the blaze.

It is not just Ms Thunberg who is wagging the finger of blame. Central bankers, shareholders, customers and employees are urging firms to take bolder action to tackle climate change. In some boardrooms, the message is sinking in; to date 210 firms collectively worth more than $6trn, ranging from carmakers (like Renault) to confectioners (such as Mars), have committed to “science-based targets” to cut their carbon footprint in line with the internationally agreed goal of limiting global warming to 2oC or less relative to pre-industrial levels. Using data from cdp, which tracks firms’ climate disclosures, Schumpeter has developed (with stacks of poetic licence) a Shakespearean guide to climate action, from denial to reluctant engagement to bold ambition.

Start with the infant “mewling and puking in the nurse’s arms”. That, broadly speaking, is the fossil-fuel industry. For the past three decades it has kicked and screamed against efforts to halt global warming even as its products have added roughly as much carbon dioxide to the atmosphere as in the previous 250 years. Coal-burners are the biggest culprits. But oil firms are little better. The biggest listed one, ExxonMobil, is a notable laggard: it aims to increase oil and gas production by 25% from 2017 to 2025. Some European rivals, such as Norway’s Equinor and Royal Dutch Shell win praise for prioritising lower-carbon gas over oil, and for pledging to disclose more fully their carbon footprints. But the 24 biggest listed oil firms invested just 1.3% of capital expenditure last year in renewable technologies—a baby step.

The “whining schoolboy...creeping like snail unwillingly to school”, Shakespeare’s second age, sums up industries like iron and steel, cement and power-generation, which produce about half of all energy-related CO2 emissions yet grumble over carbonpricing schemes and renewable-energy mandates intended to change their behaviour. A favourite excuse for foot-dragging is that onerous regulation risks “carbon leakage” to countries with laxer emissions rules. Yet a few star pupils show how much can be done. Dalmia Cement, an Indian company that already produces a third less CO2 per tonne of cement than the industry as a whole, aims to use less high-carbon clinker in its cement and use only renewable energy by 2030. Mahendra Singhi, its boss, says that it can reduce emissions to zero by 2040, which would be remarkable given that the industry is one of the hardest to decarbonise. In Europe, HeidelbergCement has also made bold climate pledges.

The third age is that of the fickle lover, “sighing like furnace”. It corresponds to (unromantic) industries like mining, chemicals, capital goods and heavy transport. Yet they are in fact torn, loverlike, between the possibility of climate-induced pain and pleasure. Carbon taxes, or constraints on fossil-derived plastics, or fuel restrictions on shipping and flying would be painful—especially for the likes of General Electric, an industrial conglomerate whose decision to double down on fossil-fuel technologies has cost it dearly. Others, like Schneider Electric, are more animated by the pleasurable prospect of profit—from new kinds of industrial materials to equipment for the mass-electrification of energy.

Sentence:
In some boardrooms, the message is sinking in.
在一些公司的董事会里，这一信息正逐渐被人们接受。

Sums up industries like iron and steel, cement and power-generation, which produce about half of all energy-related CO2 emissions yet grumble over carbonpricing schemes and renewable-energy mandates intended to change their behaviour.
总而言之，钢铁、水泥和发电等行业的二氧化碳排放量约占与能源相关的二氧化碳排放总量的一半，但它们对旨在改变自身行为的碳定价机制和可再生能源规定颇有怨言。

A favourite excuse for foot-dragging is that onerous regulation risks “carbon leakage” to countries with laxer emissions rules.
拖拖拉拉的一个最受欢迎的借口是，繁重的监管可能会“碳泄漏”到排放规则更宽松的国家。

Yet they are in fact torn, loverlike, between the possibility of climate-induced pain and pleasure.
然而，事实上，他们像恋人一样，在气候引发的痛苦和快乐之间左右为难。

These are firms whose businesses are already in the throes of climate-related disruption that are finally jumping into the fray.
这些公司的业务已经陷入了与气候有关的破坏的阵痛，最终也加入了这场战斗。