How a giant Chinese telecoms firm became mired in political controversy

It is hard to think of a better reflection of the rise of China than the rise of Huawei. Like China, the firm, which was founded in 1987, began at the bottom of the value chain, reselling telephone-switching gear imported from Hong Kong. Also like China, it was not content to stay there. These days its products—from smartphones to solar panels—are sleek, high-tech and competitive with anything its rivals can produce. As a result its revenues have soared, hitting $105bn in 2018.Huawei, and its mother country, have become technological pacesetters in their own right. The firm employs 80,000 people in research and development alone. China filed 53,345 patents in 2018, a hair behind America’s 56,142. Of China’s, around one in ten came from Huawei alone.

Huawei’s ascent, like that of China, has caused a good deal of worry elsewhere in the world. Three decades on, the firm is still in the telecoms-equipment business. Along with Nokia, a Finnish firm, and Ericsson, a Swedish one, Huawei has become one of the world’s biggest suppliers of the high-tech kit used to build mobile-phone networks around the world. Of the three, Huawei has been the most active in setting the technical standards for “fifth-generation” (5G) networks. These promise big increases in speed and capacity that will improve some existing technologies, such as connected cars, and make possible new ones, including the sensor networks that will supposedly enable “smart cities”. Huawei and China therefore sit at the heart of technologies which governments worldwide have come to regard as a critical piece of future national infrastructure.

A half-open door
That is the context in which to see a decision by Britain, leaked to the press on April 24th, to grant Huawei a limited role in building its 5G networks. It was taken in the teeth of a determined American campaign to persuade its allies to freeze the company out. Mike Pence, America’s vice-president, and other officials have warned publicly that Huawei’s gear could contain “back doors”—malicious code designed to let Chinese spies snoop on communications, or even bring down networks altogether.

Mike Pompeo, America’s secretary of state, has threatened to withhold intelligence co-operation from anyone who uses the firm’s gear in “critical” networks. Australia, like Britain one of America’s allies in the “Five Eyes” electronic-spying pact, has banned the firm explicitly. New Zealand, another member, has rebuffed a request from a local firm to use Huawei’s kit. Japan— which is not in the club, but is closely allied to America—has tightened its rules.

The Five Eyes, often abbreviated as FVEY, is an anglophone intelligence alliance comprising Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States. These countries are parties to the multilateral UKUSA Agreement, a treaty for joint cooperation in signals intelligence.