1. Mr Armstrong became an advocate for crypto-currencies after seeing the difficulties of moving conventional money around the world. While studying at Rice University in Houston, he co-founded an online marketplace for tutoring, called UniversityTutor.com, which grappled with how to pay tutors worldwide in various currencies. He later worked at Airbnb and then attended Y Combinator, a startup school, before setting up Coinbase with Fred Ehrsam, once of Goldman Sachs.

   

2. Both founders contradict the stereotype of crypto-enthusiasts as wild, lawless iconoclasts. On June 27th Mr Armstrong launched GiveCrypto.org, a philanthropic effort to encourage people who have made fortunes in crypto-currency to give some away; he pledged $1m of his own money. Yet Coinbase’s digital fortunes are not immune to volatility. Mr Armstrong declines to comment on how recent falls in the value of crypto-currencies have affected Coinbase’s sales, but acknowledges that “in up markets people tend to trade more”.

   iconoclast：反传统人士

   

3. Donald Trump and supporters seem to be aiming for a new kind of independence: from allies, from international law, from the economics of trade and even from the norms of politics.

    

4. But the global sanctions that were briefly lifted in exchange are looming again.

   loom：朦胧的出现，隐约可见

   

5. Donald Trump pulled America out of the deal in May, and has already tightened sanctions on foreign banks that transfer dollars and revoked licences previously issued for aircraft sales. Come November, America is threatening to impose sanctions on countries buying Iranian oil.

   revoke：撤回，取消，废除

   

6. If they cannot agree on a package to offset American sanctions, he warns, Iran will revamp its nuclear programme.

   revamp：修补，翻新

   

7. Both were spearheaded by Lu Qi, a former Microsoft executive hired by Baidu as its star AI expert in early 2017—until he left in May. The firm’s shares duly tumbled by 9.5%, the most in three years, and Credit Suisse downgraded them.Few expect Mr Lu’s exit to force a drastic rethink at Baidu, but it could now take longer for its AI business to drive a profit.

   tumble：大跌


