1. Tributes were paid to Sergio Marchionne, a lauded chief executive of Fiat Chrysler, after he died from complications following surgery. He was 66. The poker-playing, chain-smoking Mr Marchionne was a larger-than-life figure in the car industry. After turning around a lethargic Fiat he engineered a merger in 2009 with Chrysler, with the backing of the American government, and set about restructuring its management and sales practices. Once asked about Fiat’s slow conversion to the electric-car revolution, Mr Marchionne replied: “Better late than sorry.” Fiat Chrysler’s new boss is Mike Manley, the British head of its Jeep division. 

   tribute：〔向某人表示敬慕的〕致敬（行为）；颂词；礼品

   I’d like to *pay tribute to* (= *praise and admire publicly* ) the party workers for all their hard work. 

   我谨向党内工作人员致敬，感谢他们的辛苦努力。 

   complication：并发症，复杂，复杂化，混乱

   chain-smoke：连续不断的抽烟

   larger-than-life：有英雄色彩的，有传奇色彩的

   lethargic：昏睡的，无生气的

   set about：着手，开始做

   

2. Donald Trump met Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, in Washington to discuss trade. The two leaders agreed to start a “dialogue” on the tit-for-tat tariffs that each side has recently set in motion, but no schedule for talks was forthcoming. They at least backed away from levying new duties. 

   set in motion：开始，调动

   back away：逐渐后退，逐渐消退

   

3. Reap what ye sow

   America’s Department of Agriculture announced that it will extend $12bn in relief to farmers who have been hurt by tariffs imposed by China and other countries in retaliation for Mr Trump’s trade war. The imposition of duties has unsettled markets in many agricultural goods. Chinese tariffs on American soyabeans, for example, have curtailed America’s exports of the commodity, leading to a build-up of domestic stockpiles and falling prices.

   Reap what ye sow：种瓜得瓜，种豆得豆

   unsettle：使动摇，使不安定，使心神不宁

   stockpile：库存

   

4. General Motors reported that increased commodity costs were partly to blame for lower profit forecasts. Steel and aluminium have become more expensive because of higher tariffs. Harley-Davidson said that it expects its incremental costs because of tariffs to be up to $55m this year and could be as high as $100m next year. The motorcycle manufacturer is not just being hit by higher metal costs; it is also moving some production out of America to avoid European duties. 

   incremental cost：增量成本

   

5. Congress backed down from its threat to reimpose a ban on ZTE, a Chinese maker of telecoms equipment, acquiring American semiconductors and other components crucial to its business. The White House lifted the ban after reaching a settlement with ZTE for violating sanctions. Congress wasn’t happy with that, but after a round of lobbying by Mr Trump it has softened its position and will instead block companies that work for the government from buying ZTE’s equipment.

   back down：妥协，退让

   

6. Qualcomm, a big American chipmaker, ditched its bid to buy NXP Semiconductors, a Dutch rival, after failing to get approval for the $44bn deal from regulators in China. The withholding of Chinese approval is seen as another shot in the trade war.

   ditch：丢弃

   withhold：克制，阻挡

   

7. Following a series of strikes by pilots in Ireland, its home country, Ryanair warned it might have to cut jobs, cautioning that its reputation for low fares could be affected by the industrial action.

   industrial action：（罢工等）劳工行动

   

8. The Turkish lira fell sharply, after the central bank decided to leave its benchmark interest rate on hold, at 17.75%. That unnerved markets hoping for a rate increase to combat inflation, which reached 15.4% in June. It also fuelled worries that Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey’s president, who has called interest rates “the mother of all evil”, is again encroaching on central-bank policymaking. 

   unnerve：使焦躁，使恐惧

   encroach：蚕食，侵占

   

9. Alphabet, Google’s parent company, reported a 9% drop in quarterly profit compared with the same three months last year, to 3.2bn, as it booked the cost of the EU’s recent 5bn fine, levied for abusing the dominance of its Android operating system for smartphones. But Google’s advertising revenue, the mainstay of the business, rose by almost a quarter to $28bn, enthusing investors. Alphabet’s share price soared to a record high. 

   book the cost of：计入成本

   mainstay：支柱

   enthuse：使热心

   

10. By contrast, Facebook’s share price swooned after it revealed that its user growth was slowing. It gave a downbeat assessment of its business in the medium term, warning that new video formats and data-privacy concerns would hit margins.

   swoon：drop，fade

   downbeat：悲观的