1. A shortage of the stuff has therefore created havoc in foodmakers’ supply chains. Heineken, a Dutch brewer, and Coca-Cola, an American drinks giant, have been forced to close some of their European plants. JD Wetherspoon, a British pub chain, ran out of some beers. Scotland’s largest pig slaughterhouse was forced to shut. On June 29th Warburtons, a British baker, said that the problem had affected crumpets, closing down half its production of the snacks (the affected bakeries have since reopened).

   snack：小吃，快餐

   

2. For most commodities, prices would then rise, encouraging more production. But the carbon-dioxide market does not work like that. First, there is no spot price that could adjust quickly; most of the gas is sold through long-term contracts. Second, since the gas is a cheap by-product of making ammonia and other chemicals, it is not worth making them simply to produce CO2. In 2016 global carbon-dioxide sales were worth just over $2bn—minuscule  amounts  compared with 49bn—worth of ammonia sales. And third, shipping the gas costs so much compared with its price that it is not worth moving supplies from America or Asia to Europe.

   spot price：现货价格

   

3. THE menace to Americans from immigration of the wrong sort is immense, according to President Donald Trump. The list of items he wants to deter from crossing the border includes objects as well as people, and one in particular holds his attention. In trade terms, he told Fox News on July 1st, “the cars are the big one.” With good reason, he views auto tariffs as a far deadlier weapon than the duties already imposed on steel and aluminium when it comes to extracting trade concessions from other countries.

   menace：威胁，恐吓

   immense：巨大的，广大的

   concession：特许权，让步

   

4. That is dire news for all carmakers, which are among the world’s most globalised firms. But Germany’s are the most dependent on exports. Most well-off Americans long ago traded in Lincolns and Cadillacs for the refinement of Teutonic marques. A tweet from Mr Trump on June 22nd reaffirming his tariff plans sent the shares of Daimler, which makes Mercedes, and of BMW into a nosedive. 

   dire：可怕的，悲惨的

   refinement：改进，改良品

   nosedive：暴跌    plummet：暴跌