1. Here we go again

   With Britain’s parliament seemingly deadlocked over possible Brexit deals, the idea of giving the people another say is back in play. Obstacles include parliament’s need to legislate for a new referendum. Voters could be offered three choices: stay in the EU; accept the deal that Theresa May agrees with Brussels; or leave with no deal. But this might incentivise the EU to offer a bad deal, in the hope that Britain would therefore choose to remain.

   incentivise：激励

   

2. Slim pickings

   India’s farmers should be among the happiest in the world. For decades governments have showered them with perks including tax exemptions; subsidies on fertiliser, seeds and energy; cheap crop insurance; and price support for more than 20 crops. Yet there is a deepening agricultural crisis. Farms are shrinking, rains are unreliable and produce often fetches miserable prices. Many of the government’s policies are actually worsening the problem.

   shower：大量的给予

   perks：特权，额外津贴，特别待遇

   

3. Goodbye illiberal democracy

   For eastern Europeans, membership of the EU was meant to guarantee the national sovereignty that was squashed during decades of Soviet subjugation. But in their haste to embrace the liberal, “back to Europe” narrative, well-meaning westerners have overlooked the rather different journey taken by their eastern neighbours. That has become a problem.

   squash：镇压

   haste：匆忙，急忙，轻率

   

4. Up a peg: India’s IPO boom

   TCNS Clothing, which kicks off its IPO today, is not alone. A slew of Indian firms—including also a seafood-seller and travel firm—are expected to raise 2bn in share offerings this month. Nor is July a flash in the pan: the first half of 2018 saw more IPOs in India than in any other country; the $3.9bn already raised was 28% more than the same period last year. With India’s banks burdened by bad debts and reluctant to offer new loans, more firms are exploring equity finance. Individual investors, meanwhile, are warming to mutual funds, egged on by prime-time ads during big cricket matches and football’s World Cup: they parked 20% more in such vehicles in the quarter to June than during the same period in 2017. Expect more action in the second half of the year, when one of those scheduled to list is Adani Green Energy, maker of the world’s largest solar plant.

   A slew of：一连串

   a flash in the pan：昙花一现

   egg：煽动，怂恿

   vehicle：媒介(物)；手段 

   

5. Goldman Sachs named David Solomon to succeed Lloyd Blankfein as chief executive, as the investment bank reported better-than-expected second-quarter net profits of $2.6bn. Mr Solomon, currently Goldman’s chief operating officer, is into DJing as well as debt ratios (his alter ego is D-Sol). Mr Blankfein is less skilled on the turntables but did steer the firm through the financial crisis.

   DJing：转动唱盘及混音；打碟

   alter ego：个性的另一面

   turntable：唱机上的转盘

   

6. He takes the judgment of America’s intelligence services that Russia intervened in the 2016 election campaign to be a personal insult, an accusation that he needed outside help to beat Hillary Clinton. He will readily believe the word of a former KGB agent over the views of the CIA or FBI on this point.

   insult：侮辱，无礼

   

7. Mitch Lowe, chief executive of MoviePass (and a former Netflix executive), professes to be undaunted by the losses. He says that the most frequent cinema-goers have taken up MoviePass subscriptions first, driving up costs. As more casual film-goers sign up, losses should abate. The service also recently announced some add-ons to help defray costs further, including “surge pricing” at times of peak demand. He hopes to get the cash burn of the core ticketing service down to $1 per subscriber, with a projected 5m subscribers by the end of the year. He plans to get MoviePass into the black by such means as advertising, for example by promoting films to users in exchange for fees from studios. That is, if the money lasts. 

   professe：自称，公开表示

   undaunted：勇敢的，无畏的

   casual：临时的，偶然的

   abate：减轻，减少

   defray：支出，支付

   into the black：(进入黑字状态)财政上处于有利状况，变为有盈余，变为有结余
