1. The downside of the American approach is that subsidiaries are wedded to a business model that proved itself in completely different circumstances. Like the Chinese, most Asian consumers use only mobile phones to access the internet; the American trio made their first fortunes through PCs. Some think the executives dispatched from head office lack the fizz of the local entrepreneurs they are taking on, and rely overly on lavish cheques from head office.

   be wedded to：固执于

   fizz：兴奋，活力

   

2. The two models could yet both be proved right, and start to converge. The advantages of being part of a global outfit might be decisive in delivering some services, such as search or social media. Alibaba is pushing its own branded B2B platform for Indian small businesses, helping them sell their wares abroad and, in this instance, expanding in much the same way that an American rival might have done. In other areas, where local nous matters more, American groups might adopt a more Chinese-style approach of building an “ecosystem” of allied firms. Amazon was said to be interested in buying Flipkart, in which Walmart is now buying a majority stake (in part from Tencent); Google is still said to be mulling a minority investment. On June 17th Google invested $550m in JD.com, a Chinese e-commerce firm which has spent lavishly on startups in Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam.

   mull：思索，思考；研磨；使醉

   

3. Dominic Raab, who succeeds Mr Davis as Brexit secretary, is one of the more adaptable Brexiteers. Mrs May had been in no hurry to promote him, but her desire to keep the Remainer-Leaver balance in her cabinet left her with few choices. The ministerial carousel triggered by Brexit will result in a fifth minister for housing (Mr Raab’s old job, and a vital post) since 2015. This demonstrates the damage already done by Brexit to British politics.

   carousel：旋转木马，走马灯

   

4. Over the past four years an estimated 600,000 people have crossed from Libya to Italy. Most probably reached Libya via Agadez, a town in central Niger. Agadez thrived, but efforts to restrict immigration have lowered numbers. Now the inhabitants of Agadez are finding profit in other smuggling ventures, including cars, guns and drugs. The movement of migrants is also reversing, as those deported or rejected head back south.

   smuggle：走私

   

5. The fashion for agile management, which focuses on small, innovative and multi-disciplinary teams over “processes and tools”, is spreading. Responding to change, rather than sticking to plans, and becoming closer to the customer are its supposed aims. This way of thinking seems sensible enough for specific projects and small companies. But now big businesses are seeing whether they can become agile. That could lead to chaos.

   agile：敏捷的，机敏的，活泼的