1. Amazon, the latest to report of the “FAANG” quintet of big tech companies, did better. In the second quarter it earned $2.5bn in profit, twice as much as expected. Famous for dispatching brown boxes to your door, Amazon now makes much of its money in the cloud: its cloud-computing division accounted for 55% of its operating income. 

   quintet：五重奏

   

2. Spotify’s shares hit their highest note yet, on the company’s second-quarter financial results, pushing the value of the company to 34bn. The music-streaming service slightly beat forecasts for paying subscribers, and made it to 100m users who listen to advertisements. But there is still a chorus of doubt behind the company, which made an operating loss of €90m ($105m).

   a chorus of thanks/disapproval/protest/doubt etc
   something that a lot of people all say at the same time
   异口同声的感谢/反对/抗议等
   The minister was greeted with a chorus of boos.
   部长遭到了一片嘘声。
   There was a chorus of agreement from the committee.
   委员会一致同意。
   More politicians have now joined in the chorus of complaints.
   现在有越来越多的政客也纷纷表示不满。

   

3. BP agreed to buy the American shale operations of BHP for 10.5bn. It is the British oil major’s first big acquisition since the Deepwater Horizon disaster, that cost the firm 65bn. The deal ends BHP’s unhappy shale adventure. The Anglo-Australian mining giant paid $20bn for the assets in 2011, before the oil price plunged, leading to huge write-downs. 

   Anglo-Australian mining giant：英澳矿业巨头

   

4. Hailstorms and rain. Thursday was another super busy day on Wall Street. In addition to Amazon pleasing the market with the highest quarterly profit in its history, as Adam mentioned, Intel was less fortunate. Its sales rose 15% to $17 billion, ostensibly beating analysts expectations. But within the figure, sales to the all important data center market fell below expectations while volatile PC chip sales surged. And the company said its very, very, very delayed 10nm chips wouldn't arrive until the end of next year. Intel shares were down 7% in premarket trading. But Twitter had it worst of all. Its shares were down 16% premarket after the company reported its monthly active users decreased by 1 million during the second quarter to 335 million and would likely fall again this quarter. 

   ostensibly：表面上

   

5. In need of an umbrella. Mark Zuckerberg's net worth reportedly dived 16 billion as Facebook's stock price ended Thursday with a 19% loss. The 119 billion drop in a single day in the company's market value was a record for the stock market (sorry, previous record holder Intel, which had lost $91 billion on a particularly bad September day in 2000). If that wasn't enough to give the Harvard dropout indigestion, a money management firm that holds Facebook shares filed a proposal to have Zuck removed as chairman due to the company "mishandling" several crises. 

   indigestion：消化不良

   

6. Britain’s Serious Fraud Office sought to reinstate charges against Barclays in relation to a loan it obtained from Qatar’s investment company during the financial crisis. A court had dismissed the charges in May.

   dismiss：驳回

   

7. Papa don’t preach

   Papa John’s adopted a “poison pill” to try to stop John Schnatter from gaining control of the pizza chain, following his resignation as chairman for using a racial slur. Mr Schnatter founded the company and controls around 30% of the shares. He has apologised for the slur but now says it was a mistake to step down. In January Mr Schnatter stood aside as chief executive, after he criticised players in the National Football League for kneeling during the national anthem.

   Papa John：棒!约翰，pizza餐厅，去过上海的一家，很好吃