1. The proximate cause this week was a brace of supply outages in Libya and Venezuela, both of which are in upheaval. But adding fuel to the price rally is the Trump administration’s pressure on America’s allies to cut oil imports from Iran to zero by November 4th, or risk punishment for violating American sanctions. 

   proximate cause：近因，直接原因

   outage：储物损耗，中断供应，运行中断

   upheaval：剧变，动乱

   rally：止跌回升

   

2. Mr Trump also tweeted on the need for Saudi Arabia to increase production by up to 2m b/d—an unusually open attempt by an American president to intervene in the nitty-gritty of OPEC policy. The White House later backtracked from his claim that Saudi Arabia had agreed to the request, but not without affirming that the kingdom had 2m b/d of spare capacity.

   nitty-gritty：具体细节

   backtrack：由原路返回，回溯；收回

   

3. He may yet exert his influence even more openly. Analysts predict that if petrol prices continue to rise ahead of the mid-terms, Mr Trump will use a release of up to 30m barrels from the SPR to flood the market. That would be tantamount to launching an oil war against OPEC and Russia, in addition to the trade war. But it cannot be ruled out.

   exert：运用，发挥，施加影响

   tantamount：同等的，相当于...的

   rule out：排除

   

4. Taranis looks like something out of “Star Wars”. It is about the size of a small jet fighter, but is shaped like a flying wing. It is an unmanned, stealthy combat drone. Like most military drones it can be operated, via a secure data link, by a pilot sitting in a control centre on the ground. Taranis, however, can also be let off its digital leash and allowed to think for itself using artificially intelligent automated systems. Left to its own devices, Taranis can take off, find its way to a combat zone, select a target, attack said target with missiles and then find its way home and land. A ground pilot would be needed only to keep an eye on events and take control if there was a problem.

   leash：束缚