1. One way to get around tariffs

   Following China’s decision to loosen restrictions on foreign carmakers, Tesla signed a memorandum of understanding with the authorities in Shanghai to build a factory there. Once the project obtains the necessary permits, Tesla thinks it will take two years to build the plant, its first outside America, which will eventually make half a million cars a year. Tesla has had to raise the price of its electric cars in China to offset the cost of the government’s retaliatory tariffs on American vehicles.

   offset：抵消，补偿

   memorandum of understanding：谅解备忘录

   

2. The share price of the Chinese smartphone-maker closed just below the offer price of HK$17 ($2.17) on the first day of trading in Hong Kong. But it climbed by 13% on the second day after news that the company is to be included in the Hang Seng stockmarket index. That will allow mainland Chinese investors to buy shares in Xiaomi through a scheme that connects the Hong Kong and Shanghai exchanges.

   

3. Samsung said it expects to make an operating profit of 14.8trn won ($13.2bn) in the second quarter. It had chalked up four consecutive quarters of record profits, something the electronics giant may find hard to repeat given waning sales of its flagship Galaxy S9 smartphone and falling prices for its flash memory chips.

   chalk up：取得，达到

   

4. Britain’s information commissioner handed Facebook a £500,000 ($660,000) fine for failing to protect users and for a lack of transparency over the data obtained via the social network by Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm. It was the biggest penalty allowed under British data-protection laws. The regulator also slapped a fine on an advice site for new parents, which shared personal data with the Labour Party. 

   

5. Reddit is an American social news aggregation, web content rating, and discussion website. Registered members submit content to the site such as links, text posts, and images, which are then voted up or down by other members. Posts are organized by subject into user-created boards called "subreddits", which cover a variety of topics including news, science, movies, video games, music, books, fitness, food, and image-sharing. Submissions with more up-votes appear towards the top of their subreddit and, if they receive enough votes, ultimately on the site's front page. Despite strict rules prohibiting harassment, Reddit's administrators spend considerable resources on moderating the site.