1. This looks like a worrying bout of unilateralism, reminiscent of the 1980s, when Section 301 was used by the Reagan administration to threaten Japan with tariffs unless it curbed its exports to America. The resulting tangle of restrictions made free traders squirm, but advocates argued that aggression served a higher purpose. It rallied the rest of the world around stronger trade-enforcement rules, which led to the creation of the WTO’s system of dispute settlement. This time Mr Lighthizer seems to be trying to weaken that system. 

   bout：回合，较量

   

2. Yet, amid the conflict there is still hope of salvaging a peace. As the trade cannons blast, efforts are being made to restore order. The chances of success rest on the fact that Mr Lighthizer’s concerns about China are shared by others, and in particular by the EU and Japan. 

   salvage：〔从事故或糟糕情形中〕抢救出〔某物〕；挽救，挽回

   cannon：大炮；炮轰，开炮

   blast：爆炸，猛攻

   rest on：停留在

   

3. The EU sees an opportunity to act as a bridge between China and America to negotiate new rules. It thereby hopes to address its own concerns over China’s rise, while tempting America back into the multilateral system. The EU may disagree with Mr Trump’s approach to China, but it recognises that it could harness America’s aggression as a way to get China to agree to new constraints. The plan is to make China’s choice clear, between an unstable trading system and one with new rules that meet the others’ concerns.

   harness：驾驭，利用

   

4. The first hint of co-operation came last December, when Mr Lighthizer added his name, along with those of his counterparts from Japan and the EU, to a brief statement voicing shared concerns over “unfair competitive conditions caused by large market-distorting subsidies and state-owned enterprises”. China, though unnamed, was clearly the target. Since then, officials from all three places have been discussing what new WTO rules might look like. And on July 16th the EU launched a working group with the Chinese to discuss reform of the multilateral system. The trilateral talks between America, the EU and Japan are meant as an incubator for rules that could be taken to China; those between the EU and China are designed to be a sounding-board for those ideas and to prepare the ground for a proper negotiation.

   incubator：孵化器

   sounding-board：被用作试探意见之人 

   

5. A joint statement on May 31st outlined the scope of the trilateral talks. First on the agenda is the dull but important topic of notifications. Tariffs are obvious to observers, subsidies less so. To counter that problem, WTO members are supposed to notify others about support they hand out. But without penalties for failing to do so, many do not. The three are designing a way to strengthen the incentives to comply.

   But without penalties for failing to do so, many do not.

   但是，如果没有惩罚措施，许多人就不会这么做。

   

6. But with technology transfer, for example, America claims that unwritten rules force firms to hand over their technology as a condition of doing business. That makes it hard to write watertight regulations and to test them in the WTO’s court, particularly if the firms involved are too scared to speak for fear of losing access to the Chinese market.

   watertight：不漏水的，无懈可击的

   

7. Another risk to the plan is Mr Trump himself. Mr Lighthizer may be a brilliant strategist, capitalising on his boss’s willingness to blow up the system in order to force the change that he wants. But he could easily fall out of favour. The plan relies on Mr Trump playing along and stepping back from the brink at the right time. He could go too early, bought off by an offer from China’s president, Xi Jinping, to buy more American goods without bringing any reform to the system. Or he could hang on too long, turning the confrontation with China into one only about power and face, and not one about trade and rules.

   capitalize on：利用，使用

   

8. Seen from one angle, the Americans are making a last-ditch effort to reshape the system they founded to serve their own interests. Unless they do it now, they reckon, China will become too powerful to contain. Perhaps that moment has already passed. In the 1980s, when the Reagan administration acted against Japanese trade practices, Japan’s GDP was around 40% of America’s. But this year, according to the IMF, China’s GDP will be 69% of America’s, rising to 88% over the next five years.

   last-ditch effort：最后的努力

   

9. The Chinese may call America’s bluff, hoping that when Mr Trump goes in two or six years’ time, the next president will be less keen to tax his citizens by raising the cost of imports. If so, expect tariffs to continue. And for the multilateral rules-based system to become still more toothless. 

   bluff：虚张声势

   toothless：无权势的

   

10. Source of conflict: Wikimedia

    This weekend, knowledge-geeks gather in South Africa for the foundation’s annual conference. The event involves discussions and training on Wikimedia’s free-knowledge projects, including Wikipedia, an online encyclopedia that receives billions of visits a year. This year’s theme is how best to achieve the goal of collating the sum of human knowledge. It has a way to go. Around 90% of Wikipedia’s volunteer editors are male. As of 2015, just 20% came from Africa, Latin America or developing Asian countries—home to 75% of today’s online population. An overwhelming amount of information is written only in English. The result is a vast repository of knowledge that still does not reflect Wikipedia’s global audience. To tackle this bias, Wikimedia must overcome a culture that is famously unwelcoming to newcomers and prone to petty “edit wars” over insignificant topics that can last for years—like whether Chopin was Polish-French or French-Polish. The conference sounds a barrel of laughs.

    collate：校对，校勘

    Chopin：肖邦

    

11. The European Union and Japan signed the world’s largest bilateral trade pact. The Economic Partnership Agreement is the result of five years of negotiation. The Japanese will gradually lower their tariffs on European wine, meat and cheese, and the EU will drive down levies on imports of cars and vehicle parts from Japan. 

