1. Tesla at last reached its goal of making 5,000 Model 3 cars a week, after it set up a temporary production line in its car park to hit the target. But that was over only the last week of June; it fell far short of promised vehicle deliveries overall for the second quarter, driving its share price down. Still, Elon Musk, the electric-carmaker’s boss, celebrated the milestone as marking the point when Tesla “became a real car company”. He hopes to push production to 6,000 Model 3 cars a week by the end of August. "

   

2. The share prices of America’s leading pharmacy chains fell sharply when Amazon announced that it was buying PillPack, an online service that delivers prescription drugs in simple colour-coded packages for patients with multiple conditions. PillPack has a pharmacy licence to operate across America and works with established suppliers of medicine, attractive assets for Amazon in its push into web-based health care.

   prescription drug：处方药

   

3. Donald Trump is the new “swing factor” in global oil markets. At a time of high oil prices, markets are being buffeted by three countervailing forces he has unleashed: his geopolitical agenda, particularly sanctions on Iran; his domestic political agenda, to lower American petrol prices before the mid-term elections; and his looming trade war with China. His meddling risks making OPEC look like a paragon of predictability.

   buffet：与...搏斗，连续猛击

   countervailing：抵消的，对抗性的

   leash：束缚         unleash：释放

   paragon：模范，完美之物，优秀之人

   predictability：可预测性

   

4. The only thing more improbable than Russia’s performance at the World Cup has been the atmosphere. Foreign visitors have found warm hosts in Russian fans, who have in turn discovered an outside world less hostile than state television would have them believe. Happy vibes will not transform Russia’s politics or foreign policy. But the success of this global carnival may make it harder for the Kremlin to turn the country back into a besieged fortress.

   improbable：不大可能的，不可信的

   vibe：气氛，氛围

   carnival：狂欢节

   besieged：被包围的

   fortress：堡垒，要塞

   

5. The world’s last male northern white rhinoceros died in March. He was survived by two females who live in a conservancy in Kenya, the only remaining members of the world’s most endangered subspecies of mammal. But all might not yet be lost. Using IVF, researchers have created apparently viable hybrid embryos of northern white rhinos and their cousins from the south. This could pave the way for pure northern-white embryos.

   conservancy：保护区

   mammal：哺乳动物

   IVF：试管受精（in-vitro fertilization） 

   viable：可行的，能生育的

   hybrid：混血儿

   embryo：胚胎，胚芽

