1. Net profit: football transfers

   With the World Cup fading from memory, domestic football clubs are starting to focus on assembling squads for the upcoming season. Historically, they have taken undue notice of those who performed well at the summer’s big international football festival. According to 21st Club, a consultancy, every goal scored in the World Cup and European Championship tournaments from 2004 to 2016 raised a player’s price by, on average, 13%. But finding the net in international competitions is not a good predictor of footballers’ future effectiveness for a club. After all, a World Cup lasts just five weeks and features plenty of mismatched teams. Still, accountants at Paris Saint-Germain, a French club, will have been rubbing their hands when Kylian Mbappé, a 19-year-old striker, thumped in France’s fourth goal in the final. Football analysts thought before the competition that he might command a €190m ($223m) transfer fee. With Real Madrid reportedly hovering, that will surely have increased.

   

2. President Donald Trump invited President Vladimir Putin to the White House, just days after drawing criticism for siding with the Russian leader against his security agencies’ assessment that Russia interfered with America’s presidential election in 2016. Separately Microsoft reported that people with ties to Russia’s army tried to hack at least three candidates standing in America’s congressional elections this November.

   

3. Donald Trump criticised the Federal Reserve’s interest-rate rises, breaking with a long-standing tradition of presidents refraining from comment on monetary policy. “I’m not thrilled,” he said of America’s central bank. “But at the same time I’m letting them do what they feel is best”. He also expressed dissatisfaction with the dollar’s strength, which had the immediate effect of weakening it.

   

4. Comcast conceded defeat in its bidding war with Disney for Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox. The American cable group bid 65bn in June, before Disney tabled a 71bn bid. The deal has already cleared American antitrust hurdles and Fox’s shareholders will vote on Disney’s offer on July 27th. Comcast said it would focus on purchasing Sky, a European pay-TV group.

   

5. South Korea’s central bank estimated that North Korea’s GDP fell by 3.5% in 2017, as tighter international sanctions began to bite. It is the sharpest drop for 20 years; North Korea’s economy probably grew in 2016. Even so, the full effect of the economic embargo will not be felt until this year, the central bank said.

   

6. Tech conglomerate Softbank is teaming up with Didi Chuxing, a Chinese ride-sharing app, to launch a taxi-hailing platform in Japan. The country’s taxi market is estimated at $15bn but ride-hailing is illegal unless done through local taxi companies, which will be offered free use of the platform. The scheme will pilot in Osaka this autumn before expanding to other cities.

   

7. Boeing and Airbus received new orders for over 1,000 planes at this year’s Farnborough Airshow, a biennial industry shindig. Airbus said it had received commitments for 431 jets. Boeing meanwhile announced $98bn (at list prices) of business for its commercial jets. The firm reckons it will sell almost 43,000 new aeroplanes over the next 20 years.

   shindig：盛大的舞会

   

8. Investors cheered as Morgan Stanley rounded off a solid earnings season for American banks with better-than-expected numbers. Year-on-year quarterly net profit rose by 39%, to $2.44bn, as trading and deal-making boomed. Wealth-management revenues were slightly below expectations, but the division’s profit margins increased. Overall, the performance for the quarter was stronger than that of the firm’s arch-rival, Goldman Sachs.

   

9. The race is on to become the first 1trn company. Amazon’s stock-market valuation breached 900bn for the first time on Wednesday—only the second company, after Apple, to hit the milestone. Amazon’s share price has increased by over 123,000% since 1997, when it first listed. The firm said that on Monday (“Amazon Prime Day”) subscribers bought $100m-worth of goods.

   

10. Britain’s Financial Conduct Authority warned banks to plan for a hard Brexit next March after parliament narrowly rejected an amendment to trade legislation that would have forced the country to stay in the European Union’s customs union. Dominic Raab, the new Brexit secretary, is beefing up the government department responsible for preparing Britain for a “no deal” exit.

    

11. Donald Trump appeared to contradict the conclusions of America’s intelligence agencies for the second time in three days. Asked by reporters if Russia was still interfering in America’s elections, the president said “no”. A little later the White House press secretary said Mr Trump was answering a different question and that “we believe the threat still exists”.