1. The socially conservative bent of the Hindu-nationalist government of Narendra Modi makes it an unlikely champion of women’s rights.

   bent：爱好

   champion：斗士

   

2. TWO contests are under way in which titans holding billions in their thrall vie for global domination. One is unfolding on Russian football pitches and features the likes of Neymar and Harry Kane. The other is playing out on the smartphone screens of consumers in India, Indonesia, Brazil and other emerging economies. There, American online superstars such as Google, Facebook and Amazon are pitted against a Chinese dream team led by Alibaba and Tencent. 

   in sb’s/sth’s thrall or in thrall to sb/sth：在某人/某事的奴役[束缚，控制]之下

   We have a congress that is in thrall to special interest groups. 

   我们的国会受制于一些特殊利益集团。

   vie：竞争

   pit against ：竞争

   pitch：球场

   

3. The geopolitics of business means that the world’s biggest tech firms have swelled to combined market capitalisations of over $4trn without really going head to head.

   swell：暴增

   head to head：直接竞争或挑战，正面交锋

   

4. Mainland firms are thus ready to make a strong play for markets which neither they nor American firms can call home. Rising incomes, ballooning smartphone use and improving internet infrastructure in emerging markets make them irresistible terrain for all tech firms. As they vie for the next billion consumers to come online, Alibaba is taking on Amazon, Google is matched against Baidu and Tencent can prove its mettle against Facebook.

   terrain：领域，地带

   

5. Being a distribution expert in Singapore (whose former postal monopoly is now 14% owned by Alibaba) brings little insight into distributing packages throughout Indonesia’s 17,500 islands, say. Nor does the ability to process payments in Vietnam smooth transactions in Brazil or in Nigeria, with their vastly different banking and regulatory systems. Such intricacies, in other words, might be better delivered by local entrepreneurs who can be bought out once they have cracked them. 

   intricacies：错综复杂的事物，纷繁难懂之处

   crack：to find the answer to a problem or manage to understand something that is difficult to understand

   I think we’ve cracked the problem of the computer crashing all the time. 

   我想我们已经解决了电脑总是崩溃的难题。

   It took them nearly two months to crack the code . 

   他们花了将近两个月的时间才破译这个密码。

   This new evidence could help detectives to crack the case . 

   这个新证据可以帮助警探侦破此案。

   

6. The Chinese firms have several advantages. They have a proven record of chaperoning hundreds of millions of emerging-market consumers onto the internet. A Chinese diaspora in places like Malaysia or Vietnam, paired with plenty of mainland tourists, offers a beachhead into those markets. The Chinese giants also enjoy the tacit support of their country’s government, which is keen for them to expand in “Belt and Road” countries near China. Startup founders in Asia are more likely to want to emulate Mr Ma than his American counterparts; they will certainly prefer the Chinese approach if they want to keep running their firms.

   chaperon：陪伴，护送

   diaspora：大移居，大流散

   beachhead：滩头堡

   tacit：默许的，心照不宣的

   emulate：模范，尽力赶上，同...竞争