1. In business well-established frameworks exist for everything from corporate finance to supply chains and human resources. Time is more slippery. Should firms act now or later? Quickly or slowly? There are no clear rules. In a state-led economy the government controls the future to some extent, setting laws and allocating resources in order to fulfil a vision, as China hopes to with its “Made in 2025” plan for advanced-technology industries. But in a market economy there is no grand plan, just the individual decisions of thousands of firms competing in a spontaneous process, which Joseph Schumpeter likened to a gale.

   spontaneous：自发的，自然的

   liken to a gale：比作大风

   

2. A handful of cutting-edge firms are expressly designed to be bold bets on how societies will function at a distant future point; think of Tesla in electric vehicles or NVIDIA in advanced semiconductors. But few businesses are as focused or as novel as these. Faced with the fog of time, the majority resort to one of two popular approaches—they either lionise the “long term” or follow big, futuristic “mega-trends”. Neither are very satisfactory.

   cutting-edge：先进的，尖端的

   lionise：把...作为名流看待

   

3. Consider the idea that firms should aim for the long term. In June Jamie Dimon, the boss of JPMorgan Chase, a bank, and Warren Buffett, a venerated investor, criticised what they view as the stockmarket’s obsession with quarterly earnings guidance. But it is far from clear whether most firms are really run to hit quarterly targets. Only 28% of companies in the S&P 500 issue guidance. And when bosses are liberated to act for the long term they often stumble about in the dark. Rather than displaying prescience, the impulse of many executives is to follow the herd, with debt levels and acquisition activity typically rising at the peak of the economic and stockmarket cycles.

   venerate：崇敬，尊敬

   obsession：痴迷，困扰

   stumble：踌躇，蹒跚

   prescience：先见，预知

   herd：兽群，畜群