1. The next binge-watch: Netflix earnings

   The streaming giant comes into today’s quarterly-earnings report on a roll. It has gained subscribers faster than even bullish analysts expected, adding 26m net new members globally in the 12 months to March 31st, for a total of 125m. The firm credits that in large part to its aggressive spending on content, which is expected to top 12bn this year. Just its planned increase over last year, about 3bn-4bn, exceeds the entire content budget of HBO or the BBC. But Netflix manages this by borrowing a lot of money, $8.5bn so far. As a result, it is expected to burn through billions of dollars of cash for years to come. Bearish investors believe Netflix is a house of cards. Nevertheless, the company’s share price has more than doubled this year. Expect it to go on climbing, regardless of how much money the service is spending, if Netflix reports strong subscriber growth again today.

   on a roll：运气好，超常发挥，做的很顺

   bullish：看涨的

   Bearish investors believe Netflix is a house of cards.

   看空的投资者认为，Netflix是纸牌屋(不牢靠的计划；纸牌做的房子 )。

   

2. All smiles: Putin and Trump

   Even by today’s surreal standards, the meeting between Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin stands out. On Friday America’s Department of Justice indicted 12 Russian military-intelligence agents for their interference in the American election of 2016. Now Mr Trump will shake hands with the man who almost certainly ordered it. Whatever Mr Putin’s contribution to Mr Trump’s victory was, Mr Trump has advanced Russia’s policy of undermining the post-cold-war order. Mr Putin, trained to manipulate during his KGB days, will exploit Mr Trump’s vanity and his resentment of his own bureaucracy (“the deep state”). He may blame Barack Obama for the wars in Syria and Ukraine, the better to keep Mr Trump from doing anything about them. The Russian president has already scored his most important victory. The summit follows a triumphant World Cup in Russia, showing the world that the isolation of the country following its annexation of Crimea in 2014 has failed.

   surreal：超现实主义的，离奇的，不真实的

   stand out：引人注目

   Whatever Mr Putin’s contribution to Mr Trump’s victory was, Mr Trump has advanced Russia’s policy of undermining the post-cold-war order.

   无论普金对特朗普胜选的贡献是什么，特朗普都推进了俄罗斯颠覆冷战后秩序的政策。

   annexation：吞并，合并

   Crimea：克里米亚

   

3. More than words? China and the EU

   In recent years the summit held annually between leaders of China and the European Union has been a frosty affair. This year’s meeting, which took place today in Beijing, was more cordial. Chinese officials want the EU to speak up for them against Donald Trump’s new tariffs: in a joint statement both sides reiterated their opposition to “protectionism and unilateralism”. But while European leaders resent Mr Trump’s attacks on them, they are also frustrated with China’s way of doing business. Europeans worry that Chinese firms are buying their companies in order to purloin Western technology. Meanwhile, the value of European investment in China has been stagnating for years, in part because executives have grown weary of its protectionism. The two sides have restarted progress towards a treaty that is supposed to address some of these problems, and say they will continue trying to come up with ways to improve international trading rules. Wide divisions remain.

   frosty：结霜的，冷淡的

   cordial：热忱的，诚恳的，兴奋的

   purloin：偷窃

   stagnate：停滞，淤塞，变萧条

   weary：疲倦的，厌烦的

   

4. Ticking bomb: jihad in South-East Asia

   President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines and the prime minister of neighbouring Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad, met in Kuala Lumpur today to discuss keeping Islamic State (IS) at bay. Mainly-Muslim Malaysia and the partly-Muslim Philippines are united in their efforts to keep IS from turning South-East Asian Muslims into jihadists. Those efforts faltered last year when disaffected Filipino Muslims tried to seize and hold the Philippine city of Marawi for IS. Ultimately the jihadists lost the battle, but the city was razed and the Philippines remains vulnerable. Dr Mahathir was expected to press Mr Duterte to implement a long-delayed peace agreement, brokered by Malaysia, which is meant to end a decades-old secessionist rebellion by Filipino Muslims. Four years have passed since the terms of the agreement were negotiated. The battle of Marawi was a warning that disaffected Muslims, growing weary of waiting for the promised settlement, may rally instead to the banner of IS.

   Ticking bomb：定时炸弹

   keep sth. at bay：不使迫近，使无法近身

   falter：支吾，蹒跚地走

   raze：夷为平地，破坏，消除

   secessionist：脱离论证，分离主义者