1. JUST six years ago Spain seemed to be the European Union’s biggest economic calamity, menacing the survival of the euro itself. As it goes on holiday this week, it is in much brighter shape. Thanks to structural reforms and some good fortune, it is enjoying a sustained recovery. Spanish politics has little of the xenophobia common elsewhere in Europe. Forty years after it became a democracy, on issues of personal liberty such as gay marriage Spain feels Scandinavian rather than southern European. Boasting the world’s second-highest life expectancy, a good health service and world-class transport infrastructure, it is in many ways a great place to live.

   menace：威胁

   sustained：持续的，持久的

   xenophobia：对外国人的畏惧和憎恨

   

2. Yet that is not how many Spaniards see it. The slump in 2009-13 opened wounds that have yet to heal (see Special report). Spain is still more unequal, has more poor and more low-paid workers than in 2008. Real wages have fallen. Many younger Spaniards have had to delay their plans for a career, a house and children. Politics reflects that. A stable two-party system gave way in 2015 to hung parliaments, as public ire fuelled two newish parties: Podemos on the radical left and Ciudadanos, a centrist party a bit like the one running France.

   slump：衰退

   heal：治愈，痊愈，愈合

   give way：让路，撤退，失去控制

   

3. Podemos is one sign that Spain has not wholly been spared populism. Another is that Catalan nationalism has mutated, largely because of the crisis, into intolerant separatism. Both, in different ways, challenge the broad consensus that underlay the democratic constitution of 1978.

   spare：to not damage or harm someone or something, even though other people or things are being damaged, killed, or destroyed
   使免受〔损坏或伤亡〕，幸免
   I could not understand why I had been spared and they had not.
   我不明白为什么我得以幸免，而他们却没有。

   mutate：改变，使突变

   underlay：垫起，从下面支撑

   

4. Spain does not need refounding. But it does need further reform. That task falls to Pedro Sánchez, the new Socialist prime minister who came to power unexpectedly last month after ousting Mariano Rajoy with a censure motion over corruption scandals that were dogging the conservative People’s Party (PP). His first job is to keep the recovery going. Reducing the burden of public debt (98% of GDP) is vital if Spain is not to be caught out by the next downturn. Rather than repeal Mr Rajoy’s labour reform, as some Socialists want, Mr Sánchez should curb the abuse of temporary contracts. Education and skills-training need fixing; the welfare state should spend more on the young rather than raise unsustainable pensions.

   refound：重新创立〔组织、公司、学校等〕；重新创建〔城市〕 

   oust：取代

   dog：if a problem or bad luck dogs sb., it causes trouble for a long time
   〔问题或噩运〕长期困扰，紧随〔某人〕
   He has been dogged by injury all season. 

   他整个赛季不断受伤。

   repeal：废除，撤销

   curb：抑制

   abuse：滥用

   

5. Since 1978 Spain has transformed itself into a stable and prosperous democracy. Yet the past decade has been difficult. The global financial crisis in 2007-08 hit the country hard, triggering a prolonged slump. Since 2014 the economy has enjoyed a robust recovery. Helped by low European interest rates and (until recently) cheap oil, that is mainly because the conservative government of Mariano Rajoy, elected with an absolute majority in 2011, pushed through sweeping reforms of the labour market and the banks. After a period of unpopular austerity, the economy in mid-2017 surpassed its peak size of 2007. The most promising change is what a group of economic researchers calls “Spain’s export miracle”. A new, more outward-looking, higher-value economy is emerging.

   prolonged：旷日持久的

   austerity：紧缩，朴素，苦行

   

6. The social scars of the financial crisis, however, will take longer to heal. “Spain was very egalitarian, with a strong sense of equality of opportunity and constant progress since the 1960s,” says Charles Powell of the Elcano Royal Institute, a think-tank in Madrid. “A lot of the middle class now feel that their children will be poorer than them.” Their disillusionment has changed politics. Spain is not alone in suffering “a crisis in the governance of representative democracy”, according to Felipe González, who served as prime minister in Socialist governments in the 1980s and 1990s. This has given rise to “the politics of rancour”, he says. In 2011 crowds of young people (dubbed los indignados) occupied city squares across the country, claiming that politicians had become self-serving and corrupt. The indignation was at its most virulent in Catalonia, one of Spain’s richest regions, where nationalist parties embraced separatism.

   egalitarian：平等主义的

   disillusionment：幻灭，醒悟

   rancour：深仇，敌意

   virulent：剧毒的，恶性的，致命的

   

7. Public anger eventually spawned two new parties: Podemos (We Can) on the populist left and, on the centre-right, Ciudadanos (Citizens), which began as an anti-nationalist party in Catalonia. They ate away at the votes of the two main parties, the Socialists (PSOE) and Mr Rajoy’s People’s Party (PP). Elections in 2015 and 2016 returned hung parliaments. To avoid yet another election, the Socialists in 2016 allowed Mr Rajoy to form a minority government, with help from Ciudadanos. 

   spawn：酿成，造成

   eat away at：侵蚀，消耗

   

8. Though he applied himself doggedly to hauling Spain out of its economic slump, Mr Rajoy paid little attention to anything else, including discontent in Catalonia. Following a string of corruption scandals within the PP, on May 24th a court concluded that the party had benefited from illegal financing and that Mr Rajoy’s evidence as a witness lacked credibility. The Socialist leader, Pedro Sánchez, seized the opportunity to file a censure motion. With the backing of Podemos and the Catalan and Basque nationalists, it passed with 180 to 169 votes. Mr Sánchez was swept to prime-ministerial office, heading a Socialist government with just 84 seats.

   censure motion：谴责动议

   

9. Because of his age (46) and his fresh approach, Mr Sánchez can claim to represent political renewal. Until a few months ago he was widely regarded as an erratic apparatchik. Yet in his clinical dispatch of Mr Rajoy he showed daring and shrewd political instincts. He has appointed 12 women to a cabinet of 17. He has said he wants to govern for the remainder of the parliament, until June 2020, and can probably count on broad support from Podemos. But he could opt to call an election much sooner. 

   an erratic apparatchik：古怪的职业政党工作人员

   clinical：considering only the facts and not influenced by personal feelings
   冷静的；客观的；没有人情味的
   A formal marriage agreement sounds clinical, but it can be a good idea.
   签订一份正式的婚姻协议听起来不近人情，却是个不错的主意。

   daring：胆量，勇气

   shrewd：精明的

   

10. Continuing political deadlock would come at great cost. Spain needs further reforms. It suffers from skills mismatches, a flawed education system, a generation gap and an ageing population. Its public administration, at all levels, is marred by cronyism and inefficiency. Above all, the politicians must deal with Catalan separatism and, more broadly, some accumulated flaws in the sweeping decentralisation mandated by the constitution.

    be marred by：被...损毁

    cronyism：任人唯亲，任用亲信

    decentralisation：地方分权，权利分散

    

11. All this smacked of a wild judicial overreaction by the Spanish state, but Mr Puigdemont’s actions had been highly provocative. Officials in Madrid insist that no other continental European democracy would have acted differently if faced with such defiance. But many in Spain also blame Mr Rajoy for failing to come up with a more imaginative political response, and for allowing things to get so far out of hand in the first place.

    smack of：有点像

    provocative：刺激的，挑拨的

    

12. Catalonia poses questions that matter for Europe as well as for Spain. It represents a clash of two conceptions of democracy. Mr Puigdemont’s is plebiscitarian and based on popular mobilisation, whereas Spain’s constitutionalist politicians defend a representative democracy that is anchored in the rule of law and respects minority rights. At issue, too, is what it means to be a nation, and whether that should be an overriding identity in 21st-century Europe. “The right to decide” is a simple and seductive slogan. But international law recognises a right to self-determination only in cases of colonisation, invasion or gross denial of human rights. None of these applies in Catalonia.

    plebiscitarian：公投

    seductive：有魅力的，引人注意的