1. Mr Trump’s assault on the multilateral rules-based system threatens decades of trade liberalisation, which has nudged average tariffs between America, Europe and Japan down from 22% when the system started in 1947 to around 3% by 2000, roughly where they remain today (see chart 2). Supporters of the system, both beyond the Trump administration and throughout most of the rest of the world, fear that America’s president is intent on destroying the WTO and undoing this progress. They are right to worry but may be wrong to despair. A plan is brewing to save the WTO from being torn apart in the Trump administration’s jaws.

   brew：酝酿，酿造，计划

   jaw：下巴，颌

   

2. The prospects of an American exit are slim, as it would require the approval of Congress. But in the meantime the Trump administration is doing damage from within. Its claim that imports of steel and aluminium pose a threat to national security exploits a loophole that allows WTO members to impose tariffs in times of national emergency. Unconcerned by the erosion of trust this causes, or by damage from retaliation and higher metal prices at home, Mr Trump is undermining a set of norms that Americans have spent decades trying to build.

   slim：暗淡，渺茫

   

3. The Americans complain that the appellate body has become too big for its boots. Since 2011 it has not consulted WTO members when exceeding the 90-day limit to conclude a case. Often its reports are long, in part because judges make legal commentaries on arguments that were not presented by either side. To some, this is careful and principled application of the law. To others, it looks like empire-building.

   empire-building：

   [

   Empire-building is the practice of attempting to obtain greater power and authority within an organization for the purposes of self-aggrandizement, particularly by having extra staff or subordinates.

    aggrandize：增加，夸大，强化

   In political science, empire-building refers to the tendency of countries and nations to acquire resources, land, and economic influence outside their borders in order to expand their size, power, and wealth. This expansion can be at the cost of those nations or people that have had resources taken away from them so that the conqueror can be enriched.

   In business, empire-building is demonstrated when individuals or small groups attempt to gain control over key projects and initiatives to maximize job security and promotability. Project leadership hoards potential credit and prestige the project can produce. Because this approach prevents other people in the organization from contributing in a meaningful manner and alternative or competing projects to address the project's goals are destroyed regardless of their merit, the company suffers as a whole, projects fail, and the goals of the project are achieved partially, inadequately, or not at all. This sort of behavior is supposed to be stopped by upper management but is nevertheless very common.

    hoard：贮存，密藏

   In an organization, empire-building can also be demonstrated when an individual or small group eagerly and proactively suggests and pursues functions, activities or projects that are of questionable value to try to enhance legitimacy and future value. Pursuit of these activities is initially done at little or no marginal cost, but later the activities are used to justify increased resource allocation, being part of the organizational status quo, and thus the individual or group's overall command of resources, and influence, increases.

   ]

   

4. One particularly painful decision relates to what exactly counts as a “public body” within WTO rules. In general, members are allowed to apply defensive duties on imports supported by government subsidies. But in China, knowing where the government ends and the private sector starts is tricky. The Americans had claimed that where the government owned a majority stake in an enterprise, it should automatically count as a “public body” liable for handing out subsidies. But the appellate body ruled against them, making it harder to apply defensive duties against state-supported production.

   But in China, knowing where the government ends and the private sector starts is tricky.

   但在China，了解当局在哪里收手和私营企业在哪里发挥作用是棘手的。 

   

5. Take first the American concerns over China’s industrial policy. The WTO’s rulebook has a chapter curbing state subsidies. But it has gaps, in part because when it was written American and European negotiators were nervous of subjecting their own subsidy regimes to scrutiny and did not expect China to generate the resources to hand out vast sums of cash. Now, given China’s size and systemic importance, those holes look too big. 

   curb：抑制，勒住

   gap：缝隙，缺口

   subject to：受制于

   expect：预料

   

6. In many industries, China’s government required that foreign firms investing in its market did so in joint ventures with local companies. The Americans complain that too often their firms had to hand over technology as a condition of access to the Chinese market, and then watched helplessly as partners ran off with their ideas.