1. Bowling Pakistan over: Imran Khan

   The prime-minister-elect’s victory in Pakistan’s general election this week was, some suspect, eased by the military’s invisible hand. But Imran Khan had another advantage: he was already revered as possibly Pakistan’s greatest cricketer in a country that worships the game. Mr Khan was a rare talent, an “all rounder” in cricket parlance—one of only eight players in Test cricket’s 131-year history to have both scored 3,000 runs and taken 300 wickets. His defining triumph came in 1992, when he captained the country to its only World Cup win. Ever mercurial, Pakistan had stuttered to the final in Melbourne where, in front of 90,000 spectators, they dispatched England. Mr Khan was the inspiration, disdainfully bludgeoning 72 runs against the former colonial power. The global audience for the tournament—over Ramadan to boot—was an estimated 1bn. Many Pakistanis of a certain age call it their proudest moment, helping to explain the skipper’s enduring popularity.

   cricket：板球，板球运动

   parlance：术语

   Test cricket：板球对抗赛

   captain：指挥，率领

   mercurial：〔情绪〕变化无常的，多变的
   an actor noted for his mercurial temperament

   以性情反复无常而出名的一名男演员

   stutter：〔机器〕发出突突的噪声，不顺畅地运转

   a refrigerator which stuttered and hummed

   一台发出突突声且嗡嗡作响的冰箱

   disdainful：轻视的，轻蔑的，蔑视的，藐视的，鄙视的，倨傲的，傲慢的

   bludgeon：用重物连击〔某人〕 

   Ramadan：斋月

   

2. Wave goodbye: the ocean wilderness

   The fingerprints of human impact are smudged all over the land. But how much ocean remains untouched? According to an analysis published this week, not a lot. Just 13%—some 54m square kilometres—remains as unaltered wilderness: pockets of mostly pristine waters, rich in biodiversity and home to many unique marine species. To reach this stark conclusion, researchers gathered data on 19 man-made ocean stressors, including commercial shipping, pollution, and over-fishing. They then modelled and mapped out the extent of anthropogenic interference in the deep—revealing the last vestiges of the wild. Most is polar, or in the southern high seas. A heartening chunk of 16m square kilometres sits in the Pacific Ocean. Little survives in coastal regions. Currently less than 5% lies within designated marine protected areas. The team call for urgent recognition of ocean wilderness, in the hope that at least some of these ecological windows into the past can remain open.

   wilderness：荒野，荒地

   smudge：弄脏，涂污

   pocket：a small area or amount of something that is different from what surrounds it
   〔与周围区域不同的〕一小片，少量
   [+ of]
   In some parts, there are still pockets of violence and unrest.
   在某些地区，仍然存在零星的暴力事件和骚乱。

   pristine：崭新的，簇新的；极其新鲜的；洁净的；

   未受损害的；处于原始状态的pristine African rainforest

   非洲原始雨林

   anthropogenic：人为的，人类起源的，源于人类活动的，人类的

   vestige：遗迹，残余

   heartening：鼓舞人心的，令人振奋的

   ecological：生态的，生态学的

   

3. Chinese regulators foiled a long-pending agreement for Qualcomm, an American chipmaker, to buy a Dutch peer, NXP Semiconductors. The $44bn deal had become entangled in Donald Trump’s trade war. The acquisition had been expected to help Qualcomm move more swiftly into building chips for cars and mobile payments. Disappointment notwithstanding, the firm reported that quarterly revenue rose by 4%. 

   foil：阻止，挫败，挡开

   notwithstanding：尽管，仍然