Lessons from the world’s biggest offshore-wind market

About every seven days, turbine parts are loaded onto a giant ship in Hull docks: blades measuring 75 metres (250 feet), 90-metre-high towers and 400-tonne nacelles, the masses of steel, fibre glass and gears that together transform wind into power. The ship brings its cargo 120km into the North Sea, where foundations wait in the waves. Workers erect four wind turbines, then the ship returns to shore for more parts. In the next few weeks installations for the Hornsea One project will be completed, with 174 turbines dotted across 407 square kilometres of water. It will be the largest offshore wind farm in the world. Hornsea Two, already planned, will be bigger still.

Britain is already the world’s largest offshore wind market. Last year turbines planted off its coasts had eight gigawatts (GW) of capacity, about a third more than the next-biggest market, Germany. That number is due to jump. In 2030 Britain will have 30GW of offshore wind capacity, forecasts BloombergNEF, an energy data firm, second only to China, which is set to zoom ahead. Britain’s Committee on Climate Change expects investment to continue, with offshore wind a crucial part of the government’s efforts to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.

To some, Britain proves how government can spur the rapid deployment of clean technology. To others, it shows the cost of meddling in power markets. Both assessments are correct.

Governments around the world are seeking to slash emissions from electricity generation, a task made more urgent by the shift to electric cars. Offshore wind has natural appeal. The wind blows at night and in winter, complementing the power from solar panels. Place turbines in the sea and you also dodge the NIMBYs who detest them on land. Even so, offshore wind’s global capacity is about one-twentieth that of onshore wind or solar. The main reason is that, until very recently, it was extremely expensive.

Yet Britain has seen a boom. That is due in part to geography, with high winds and shallow seas, and in part to policy. Britain’s push for renewable power gained steam in 2008, when the Climate Change Act required greenhouse-gas emissions in 2050 to be at least 80% below their level in 1990. Politicians have favoured offshore wind, funding research and a giant facility in Northumberland to test blades. Most important, however, has been subsidy.

The government decided to provide more financial support to early large-scale wind farms, such as the London Array off the Kent coast, completed in 2013, than to onshore wind or solar. Offshore wind was capital-intensive and immature, the logic went, so needed help. In 2013 ministers authorised competitive auctions for low-carbon power. Companies bid to supply electricity in 15-year contracts and the government pays the difference between the bid price and the market price. Since 2015, those auctions have excluded onshore wind and solar.

Long contracts gave companies the certainty to invest. Siemens Gamesa, which is making the turbines for Hornsea One, decided in 2014 to build a blade factory in Hull. “We could see there was volume coming,” explains Clark MacFarlane, who runs the company’s British business. Siemens will build longer blades in Hull for Hornsea Two, so more power can be generated from fewer turbines, lowering installation costs. The new turbines’ diameter will be 167 metres, 40% wider than the London Eye.

The rest of the industry has matured, too. Orsted, a Danish firm that is now the world’s biggest offshore-wind developer, cut its teeth in Britain. In 2014 it won contracts to build three big wind farms, including Hornsea One. “It allowed us to start industrialising the way we built,” says Henrik Poulsen, the firm’s boss. Orsted made bulk purchases of turbines and cables, and refined each stage of development, from site planning to maintenance.

By some measures, results have been a big success. In the past decade offshore wind capacity in Britain has grown 20-fold, meaning it now comprises a quarter of renewable generation. The lowest price secured in the first round of auctions, in 2015, was £114.39 ($142) per megawatt hour (MWH). In 2017 the cheapest projects, including Orsted’s Hornsea Two, won with bids of just £57.50. The next contracts are expected to be announced on September 20th. Other countries, including America and Taiwan, now have their own plans for offshore wind, benefiting from the expertise that companies honed in Britain.

Even so, big questions loom. In March the government announced an agreement with the offshore-wind industry that it hopes will amplify its economic impact. The government will hold auctions every two years. In return, it said, “we expect the sector to continue cutting costs, committing to lower their impact on bill-payers, while investing in and driving growth in the UK’s manufacturing base.”

Offshore wind has produced factory jobs, as at the plant in Hull. But it is not clear that creating British manufacturing jobs advances the aim to lower power prices, given Britain’s relatively high labour costs. Richard Howard of Aurora Energy Research, an analytics firm, points out that the country has expertise in building and servicing wind farms, as well as exploring technical problems through research. Britain “doesn’t tend to have a comparative advantage in making things—it tends to have a comparative advantage in making knowledge.”

The debate over costs may escalate, too. In 2017 Dieter Helm of Oxford University wrote a scathing review of Britain’s energy market, pointing out that consumers were paying high prices even as the cost of renewables plunged. He named lengthy, generous offshore-wind contracts as a principal culprit. Orsted agreed to build Hornsea One for £140 per MWH, about three times today’s wholesale price. Last year environmental policies accounted for a fifth of consumers’ electricity bills, according to Ofgem, the energy regulator. Mr Helm argues that an economy-wide carbon price would help the country choose the cheapest power with the lowest emissions. Instead, he says, “we make those choices by protecting different technologies.”

As Britain aims for net-zero, it must also grapple with the broader challenge of balancing the grid. This year the Committee on Climate Change suggested that offshore wind capacity may reach a staggering 75GW in 2050. That would require about 180 of today’s biggest turbines to be installed in each of the next 30 years. Generating that much more power from intermittent sources will need investment in technology that does not yet exist, including batteries that can store power for weeks.

The current state of the grid does not inspire confidence. Lightning strikes on August 9th contributed to halting operations at Hornsea One and a small gas plant, causing a power-cut. The blackout illuminated broader problems in Britain’s electricity system that will need to be resolved as it tries to decarbonise. The government was due to publish an energy white paper this year to deal with such questions. Amid broader political turmoil, the paper, like so much else, has been put on hold.

Sentence:
To some, Britain proves how government can spur the rapid deployment of clean technology.
对一些人来说，英国证明了政府如何能够促进清洁技术的快速应用。

To others, it shows the cost of meddling in power markets.
对其他人来说，这显示了干预电力市场的代价。

Both assessments are correct.
两种评估都是正确的。

Orsted, a Danish firm that is now the world’s biggest offshore-wind developer, cut its teeth in Britain.
Orsted是一家丹麦公司，现在是世界上最大的离岸风能开发商，在英国崭露头角。

Orsted made bulk purchases of turbines and cables, and refined each stage of development, from site planning to maintenance.
Orsted大量购买涡轮机和电缆，并对从场地规划到维护的每一个开发阶段进行了改进。

But it is not clear that creating British manufacturing jobs advances the aim to lower power prices, given Britain’s relatively high labour costs.
但考虑到英国相对较高的劳动力成本，目前尚不清楚创造英国制造业就业岗位是否有助于降低电价。

Britain “doesn’t tend to have a comparative advantage in making things—it tends to have a comparative advantage in making knowledge.”
英国“在制造东西方面往往没有比较优势——它在制造知识方面往往有比较优势。”

He named lengthy, generous offshore-wind contracts as a principal culprit.
他指出，冗长而慷慨的海上风能合同是罪魁祸首。

Generating that much more power from intermittent sources will need investment in technology that does not yet exist, including batteries that can store power for weeks.
从间歇性能源中产生如此多的电能，将需要对尚不存在的技术进行投资，包括可以储存数周电能的电池。

The blackout illuminated broader problems in Britain’s electricity system that will need to be resolved as it tries to decarbonise.
这次停电暴露了英国电力系统中更广泛的问题，这些问题需要在英国试图脱碳的过程中得到解决。