Climate change touches everything

This special issue of The Economist is not all about the carbon climate crisis. But articles on the crisis and what can be done about it are to be found across all this week’s sections. In this, our reporting mirrors the world. Whether it is in ensuring a future for the Panama Canal or weaning petrol-head presidents off their refinery habit, climate is never the whole story. Other things matter to Manhattan stockholders and Malawian smallholders. But climate change is an increasingly dangerous context for all their worlds.

To understand that context, it is important to understand all the things that climate change is not. It is not the end of the world. Humankind is not poised teetering on the edge of extinction. The planet itself is not in peril. Earth is a tough old thing and will survive. And though much may be lost, most of the wondrous life that makes Earth unique, as far as astronomers can yet tell, will persist.

Climate change is, though, a dire threat to countless people— one that is planetary in scope if not in its absolute stakes. It will displace tens of millions, at the very least; it will disrupt farms on which billions rely; it will dry up wells and water mains; it will flood low-lying places—and, as time goes by, higher-standing ones, too. True, it will also provide some opportunities, at least in the near term. But the longer humanity takes to curb emissions, the greater the dangers and sparser the benefits—and the larger the risk of some truly catastrophic surprises.

The scale of the implications underlines another thing that climate change is not. It is not just an environmental problem alongside all the others—and absolutely not one that can be solved by hair-shirt self-abnegation. Change by the people who are most alarmed will not be enough. What is also needed is change in the lives of those who do not yet much care. Climate is a matter for the whole of government. It cannot be shunted off to the minister for the environment whom nobody can name.

And that leads to a third thing that climate change is not. It is not a problem that can be put off for a few decades. It is here and now. It is already making extreme events like Hurricane Dorian more likely. Its losses are already there and often mourned—on drab landscapes where the glaciers have died and on reefs bleached of their coral colours. Delay means that mankind will suffer more harm and face a vastly more costly scramble to make up for lost time.

Hanging together
What to do is already well understood. And one vital task is capitalism’s speciality: making people better off. Adaptation, including sea defences, desalination plants, drought-resistant crops, will cost a lot of money. That is a particular problem for poor countries, which risk a vicious cycle where the impacts of climate change continuously rob them of the hope for development. International agreements stress the need to support the poorest countries in their efforts to adapt to climate change and to grow wealthy enough to need less help. Here the rich world is shirking its duties.

Yet, even if it were to fulfil them, by no means all the effects of climate change can be adapted away. The further change goes, the less adaptation will be able to offset it. That leads to the other need for capital: the reduction of emissions. With plausible technological improvements and lots of investment, it is possible to produce electricity grids that need no carbon-dioxide emitting power stations. Road transport can be electrified, though long-haul shipping and air travel are harder. Industrial processes can be retooled; those that must emit greenhouse gases can capture them.

It is foolish to think all this can be done in ten years or so, as demanded by many activists and some American presidential hopefuls. But today’s efforts, which are too lax to keep the world from two or even three degrees of warming, can be vastly improved. Forcing firms to reveal their climate vulnerabilities will help increasingly worried investors allocate capital appropriately. A robust price on carbon could stimulate new forms of emission-cutting innovations that planners cannot yet imagine. Powerful as that tool is, though, the decarbonisation it brings will need to be accelerated through well-targeted regulations. Electorates should vote for both.

The problem with such policies is that the climate responds to the overall level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, not to a single country’s contribution to it. If one government drastically reduces its own emissions but others do not, the gallant reducer will in general see no reduced harm. This is not always entirely true: Germany’s over-generous renewable-energy subsidies spurred a worldwide boom in solar-panel production that made them cheaper for everyone, thus reducing emissions abroad; Britain’s thriving offshore wind farms may achieve something similar. But it is true enough in most cases to be a huge obstacle.

The obvious fix will be unpalatable to many. The UN’s climate talks treat 193 countries as equals, providing a forum in which all are heard. But three-quarters of emissions come from just 12 economies. In some of those, including the United States, it is possible to imagine younger voters in liberal democracies demanding a political realignment on climate issues—and a new interest in getting others to join in. For a club composed of a dozen great and middling-but-mucky powers to thrash out a “minilateral” deal would leave billions excluded from questions that could shape their destiny; the participants would need new systems of trade preference and other threats and bribes to keep each other in line. But they might break the impasse, pushing enough of the world onto a steeper mitigation trajectory to benefit all—and be widely emulated.

The damage that climate change will end up doing depends on the human response over the next few decades. Many activists on the left cannot imagine today’s liberal democracies responding to the challenge on an adequate scale. They call for new limits to the pursuit of individual prosperity and sweeping government control over investment— strictures some of them would welcome under any circumstances. Meanwhile, on the right, some look away from the incipient disaster in an I’m-alright-Jack way and so ignore their duties to the bulk of humanity.

If the spirit of enterprise that first tapped the power of fossil fuels in the Industrial Revolution is to survive, the states in which it has most prospered must prove those attitudes wrong. They must be willing to transform the machinery of the world economy without giving up on the values out of which that economy was born. Some claim that capitalism’s love of growth inevitably pits it against a stable climate. This newspaper believes them wrong. But climate change could nonetheless be the death knell for economic freedom, along with much else. If capitalism is to hold its place, it must up its game.

Sentence:
Climate change is, though, a dire threat to countless people—one that is planetary in scope if not in its absolute stakes.
然而，气候变化对无数人来说是一个可怕的威胁——即使不是绝对利害攸关的问题，至少也是全球性的威胁。

Its losses are already there and often mourned—on drab landscapes where the glaciers have died and on reefs bleached of their coral colours.
它的损失已经存在，而且常常是令人悲哀的——在冰川死亡的单调景观上，在珊瑚颜色褪色的珊瑚礁上。

Delay means that mankind will suffer more harm and face a vastly more costly scramble to make up for lost time.
拖延意味着人类将遭受更多的伤害，并面临更大的代价来弥补失去的时间。

If one government drastically reduces its own emissions but others do not, the gallant reducer will in general see no reduced harm.
如果一个政府大幅减少自己的排放量，而其他政府不这么做，那么这个勇敢的减排者将不会看到任何减少的危害。

Germany’s over-generous renewable-energy subsidies spurred a worldwide boom in solar-panel production that made them cheaper for everyone, thus reducing emissions abroad;
德国过于慷慨的可再生能源补贴刺激了世界范围内太阳能电池板生产的繁荣，使其对每个人都更便宜，从而减少了国外的排放;

Britain’s thriving offshore wind farms may achieve something similar.
英国蓬勃发展的海上风力发电场也可能达到类似的效果。

For a club composed of a dozen great and middling-but-mucky powers to thrash out a “minilateral” deal would leave billions excluded from questions that could shape their destiny;
对于一个由十几个伟大的、中等但不太体面的大国组成的俱乐部来说，敲定一项“小范围”协议将使数十亿人被排除在可能决定他们命运的问题之外;

the participants would need new systems of trade preference and other threats and bribes to keep each other in line.
参与者将需要新的贸易优惠制度、其他威胁和贿赂，以保持彼此一致。

The damage that climate change will end up doing depends on the human response over the next few decades.
气候变化最终造成的破坏将取决于未来几十年人类的反应。

Many activists on the left cannot imagine today’s liberal democracies responding to the challenge on an adequate scale.
许多左翼活动人士无法想象今天的自由民主国家会以足够的规模应对这一挑战。

If the spirit of enterprise that first tapped the power of fossil fuels in the Industrial Revolution is to survive, the states in which it has most prospered must prove those attitudes wrong.
如果在工业革命中率先利用化石燃料的企业精神要生存下去，那么，在化石燃料最繁荣的国家，必须证明这些态度（摧毁资本主义）是错误的。

They must be willing to transform the machinery of the world economy without giving up on the values out of which that economy was born.
他们必须愿意改变世界经济的机制,而不放弃经济诞生于其中的企业精神的价值。

Some claim that capitalism’s love of growth inevitably pits it against a stable climate.
一些人声称，资本主义对增长的热爱不可避免地使其与稳定的气候相矛盾。

This newspaper believes them wrong.
本报认为他们错了。

But climate change could nonetheless be the death knell for economic freedom, along with much else.
然而，气候变化可能是经济自由的丧钟，还有许多其他因素。

If capitalism is to hold its place, it must up its game.
如果资本主义想要站稳脚跟，就必须坚持下去。