Boris Johnson, Britain’s prime minister, asked the queen to suspend Parliament soon after it returns on September 3rd. The move caught opposition parties, and many of Mr Johnson’s own Conservative MPs, off guard. The timing of the move, though perfectly legal, was designed to squeeze the already-tight time table for MPs who want to block a no-deal Brexit. Parliament will not reassemble until October 14th, with votes on the Queen’s Speech in the following week. With Britain due to leave the EU on October 31st, Mr Johnson’s claim that any new deal can be passed in the remaining time is unrealistic.

Reaction to the suspension of Parliament was split along Brexit lines. John Bercow, the Speaker of the Commons and a Remainer, called it a “constitutional outrage”. Jacob Rees- Mogg, the Leader of the House and an ardent Leaver, said it was a “completely proper constitutional procedure”.

Italy’s centre-left Democratic Party and the populist Five Star Movement reached an agreement to form a new coalition government that would see Giuseppe Conte remain prime minister. Mr Conte recently quit his job after Matteo Salvini, the hard-right leader of the Northern League, withdrew his support from the government. The deal keeps Mr Salvini out of power. He had served as interior minister, overseeing a crackdown on migrants.

A Russian man was arrested in Berlin on suspicion of assassinating a Chechen exile in one of the city’s parks. The victim, Zelimkhan Khangoshvili, had fought Russian troops during the Chechen insurgency and was considered a terrorist by the Kremlin, which denied any involvement in the killing.

Iran’s foreign minister, Muhammad Javad Zarif, met President Emmanuel Macron of France on the sidelines of the G7 summit in Biarritz. Mr Macron tried to arrange talks between Donald Trump and Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani. Mr Trump appeared tempted, but Mr Rouhani said there would be no negotiations until American sanctions on Iran are lifted.

Sudan’s new prime minister, Abdalla Hamdok, said his country needs $8bn in foreign aid over the next two years to fix the crippled economy. Meanwhile, Sudan’s newly created sovereign council declared a state of emergency in Port Sudan. Clashes between tribes in the city have killed at least 16 people.

The Indonesian government announced that it would relocate the country’s capital from Jakarta to the Indonesian part of Borneo. It has selected a site in the province of East Kalimantan and hopes to begin construction next year.

South Korea’s supreme court overturned part of an appeals court verdict in the bribery case of Lee Jae-yong, the de facto boss of Samsung, who had been given a suspended sentence for seeking favours from Park Geun-hye, a former president. It said that the lower court’s definition of what constituted bribery was too narrow, and that three expensive horses which Samsung gave to the daughter of the president’s confidante were bribes. The ruling is a blow for Mr Lee. The court also ordered a retrial of Ms Park’s case. She had been given a 25-year sentence for abusing her power.

A row between Japan and South Korea over compensation for South Koreans forced to work in Japanese factories during the second world war intensified. South Korea pulled out of an intelligence-sharing pact with Japan over its refusal to honour South Korean court rulings. It also conducted military exercises near islands that it controls but Japan claims.

In India, a crackdown on corruption was criticised by some for unfairly targeting political enemies of the ruling BJP party. Police recently arrested a former finance minister under the previous government for influence peddling.

Sentence:
The move caught opposition parties, and many of Mr Johnson’s own Conservative MPs, off guard.
此举让反对党和约翰逊自己的许多保守党议员措手不及。

Reaction to the suspension of Parliament was split along Brexit lines.
对议会停摆的反应在英国退欧问题上存在分歧。

The Lebanese militia-cum-political party blamed Israel for two drones that crashed in the southern suburbs of Beirut, one of which damaged a Hizbullah office.
黎巴嫩民兵兼政党指责以色列制造了两架在贝鲁特南部郊区坠毁的无人机，其中一架摧毁了真主党的一间办公室。

South Korea’s supreme court overturned part of an appealscourt verdict in the bribery case of Lee Jae-yong, the de facto boss of Samsung, who had been given a suspended sentence for seeking favours from Park Geun-hye, a former president.
韩国最高法院推翻了三星(Samsung)实际掌门人李在镕(Lee Jae-yong)贿赂案上诉裁决的部分内容。李在镕因寻求韩国前总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的帮助而被判缓刑。

It said that the lower court’s definition of what constituted bribery was too narrow, and that three expensive horses which Samsung gave to the daughter of the president’s confidante were bribes. 
它表示，下级法院对贿赂的定义过于狭窄，三星送给总统密友女儿的三匹昂贵的马是贿赂。

The ruling is a blow for Mr Lee.
这一裁决对三星总裁李在镕来说是一个打击。

The court also ordered a retrial of Ms Park’s case.
法院还下令对朴槿惠的案件进行再审。

She had been given a 25-year sentence for abusing her power.
她因滥用职权被判25年徒刑。

South Korea pulled out of an intelligence-sharing pact with Japan over its refusal to honour South Korean court rulings.
由于日本拒绝遵守韩国法院的裁决，韩国退出了与日本的情报共享协议。

It also conducted military exercises near islands that it controls but Japan claims.
韩国还在其控制但日本声称拥有主权的岛屿附近进行了军事演习。