Narendra Modi’s government is scrambling to spice up growth

For decades Kwality restaurant has served spiced chickpeas and fried flatbreads to traditionalists and tourists amid the colonnades of central Delhi. One prominent fan was Arun Jaitley, a former finance minister and foodie, who would drop in for an impromptu lunch when parliament was disrupted. It is fitting, therefore, that Kwality’s wood-panelled shelves hold bound copies of Excise Law Times, a journal about some of the country’s Byzantine taxes.

When Mr Jaitley died on August 24th after a long period of ill-health, the great and good from across India’s fierce political divides joined in praising his intellect and civility. But the economy he presided over for most of Narendra Modi’s first term as prime minister has shown no such sense of decorum. Figures due on August 30th are expected to show growth of less than 6% year-on-year for the second quarter in a row. India has not had such a poor run since early 2013 , during a period of policy paralysis that helped destroy the previous government.

In the years since, economists have waited with growing exasperation for investment spending to stage a decisive recovery. The capital-expenditure cycle has always been about to turn, without ever quite doing so. And now consumer spending has faltered. Car sales plummeted by over 30% in the year to July, the fastest drop in 19 years. Nor were small-ticket items spared. Parle, the country’s largest biscuit-maker, has warned that it may have to lay off up to 10,000 people thanks to poor demand. Its rival, Britannia, complains that rural consumers are hesitating to buy even a five-rupee ($0.07) packet of biscuits.

During Mr Modi’s first term, investors also waited anxiously for India’s banks to recover from the reckless lending of the boom years before 2012. But just as their non-performing assets began to fall (from over 11% of the total in March 2018 to 9.3% a year later), trouble befell another group of lenders, non-bank financial companies (NBFCS). These raise money from the capital markets, among other sources, and lend it to households and companies ill-served by deposit-taking banks.

A year ago Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services, a sprawling, strongly rated NBFC with 348 subsidiaries, defaulted. That spread alarm through the financial system. Other lenders found it harder to roll over the short-term debt with which they had financed their rapid growth. Dewan Housing Finance Corporation, which lent to homebuyers and property developers, defaulted in June, complaining that it could not raise fresh funding after its credit rating fell. “Illiquidity is turning into insolvency,” said Rajiv Kumar, head of NITI Aayog, a government think-tank, at a recent conference. “The entire financial sector is in a churn and nobody is trusting anybody else.”

This financial churn has exacerbated the economic slowdown. Notably, it has interrupted the flow of credit to carbuyers. But some economists think the problems run deeper. Goldman Sachs, for example, traces the deceleration back to the start of 2018 or even earlier. Mr Jaitley’s signature achievement as finance minister may bear part of the blame. His negotiating nous helped secure the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax, a levy on consumption, in 2017 (forcing a companion journal to Excise Law Times to change its name to GST Law Times). Intended as a radical tax simplification, it has proved complex and cumbersome in practice. The biscuit-makers blame it for putting off customers. Small companies complain about long waits for refunds of the GST they pay on their inputs.

The government has been slow to acknowledge the severity of the slowdown. The July budget, which imposed a higher tax (or “enhanced surcharge”) on foreign investors, was not calculated to revive animal spirits. When the stockmarket subsequently dropped, Nirmala Sitharaman, Mr Jaitley’s successor as finance minister, said she did not let it “affect her calms”.

Perhaps sensing that this lack of alarm was having the opposite effect on everyone else, the government has unveiled a plethora of measures intended to revive the economy. It relaxed a local-sourcing requirement for foreign retail brands like Apple and IKEA. It unenhanced the foreign investor surcharge and removed an “angel tax” on the funds raised by startup firms. It will try to revive the car industry by buying more vehicles for its departments. It will urge public-sector enterprises to pay suppliers more punctually and cough up GST refunds within 30 days.

To help non-bank lenders, it will enable them to offload more of their assets by guaranteeing a greater quantity of loans that are bundled into securities and sold. Its National Housing Bank will give extra support to illiquid housing lenders. Aided by the handover of 1.7trn rupees ($24bn) in profits and excess capital from the central bank (see next story), it will also hasten to inject a previously announced sum of 700bn rupees of fresh capital into public sector banks. That would, according to S&P Global Ratings, be “sufficient for now”.

The response was piecemeal, lacking a grand plan, strategic vision or large-scale mobilisation of public money. But for now, corporate India will settle for a government that has belatedly seen fit to respond to its complaints. In terms Mr Jaitley might have appreciated, this was not a slow-cooked feast that anyone would savour, but a thali, a platter of mixed dishes, offered in the hope of keeping everyone going.

Sentence:
When Mr Jaitley died on August 24th after a long period of ill-health, the great and good from across India’s fierce political divides joined in praising his intellect and civility.
8月24日，杰特利先生在长期的健康不佳之后去世，来自印度各地激烈的政治分歧的伟大而善良的人们纷纷赞扬他的智慧和文明。

But the economy he presided over for most of Narendra Modi’s first term as prime minister has shown no such sense of decorum.
但在纳伦德拉•莫迪(Narendra Modi)担任总理的第一个任期内，杰特利先生领导的印度经济大部分时间都没有表现出这样的端庄得体。

Figures due on August 30th are expected to show growth of less than 6% year-on-year for the second quarter in a row.
定于8月30日公布的数据预计将显示，第二季度经济同比增长将连续低于6%。

India has not had such a poor run since early 2013 , during a period of policy paralysis that helped destroy the previous government.
自2013年初以来，印度从未出现过如此糟糕的表现。2013年初，印度的政策陷入瘫痪，导致上届政府垮台。

In the years since, economists have waited with growing exasperation for investment spending to stage a decisive recovery.
自那以后的几年里，经济学家们越来越恼怒地等待着投资支出开始决定性的复苏。

The capital-expenditure cycle has always been about to turn, without ever quite doing so.
资本支出周期总是即将转向，但从未真正如此。

The entire financial sector is in a churn and nobody is trusting anybody else.
整个金融业正处于动荡之中，没有人相信其他人。

Mr Jaitley’s signature achievement as finance minister may bear part of the blame.
杰特利作为财政部长的标志性成就可能要承担部分责任。

His negotiating nous helped secure the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax, a levy on consumption, in 2017.
他的谈判技巧帮助确保了2017年对消费征收的商品和服务税(Goods and Services Tax)的出台。

Intended as a radical tax simplification, it has proved complex and cumbersome in practice.
作为一种激进的税收简化，它在实践中被证明是复杂而繁琐的。

The biscuit-makers blame it for putting off customers.
饼干制造商指责它让顾客望而却步。

Perhaps sensing that this lack of alarm was having the opposite effect on everyone else, the government has unveiled a plethora of measures intended to revive the economy.
政府或许意识到这种缺乏警觉性正对其他所有人产生相反的影响，因此推出了过多旨在重振经济的措施。

It will urge public-sector enterprises to pay suppliers more punctually and cough up GST refunds within 30 days.
它将敦促公共部门企业更准时地向供应商付款，并在30天内支付消费税退税。

The response was piecemeal, lacking a grand plan, strategic vision or large-scale mobilisation of public money.
回应是零敲碎打的，缺乏宏大的计划、战略眼光或大规模调动公共资金。

But for now, corporate India will settle for a government that has belatedly seen fit to respond to its complaints.
但就目前而言，印度企业将勉强接受一个姗姗来迟地认为适合回应其抱怨的政府。

In terms Mr Jaitley might have appreciated, this was not a slow-cooked feast that anyone would savour, but a thali, a platter of mixed dishes, offered in the hope of keeping everyone going.
用杰特利先生可能会欣赏的术语来说，这并不是一顿任何人都能享用的慢炖大餐，而是一盘什锦菜，希望能让每个人都吃下去。