Tunisian ‘Berlusconi’ leads election race from prison cell  

Days before campaigning began for Tunisia’s presidential election, Nabil Karoui, a television tycoon and the populist frontrunner in the poll, was arrested and thrown in jail.

His supporters blame Youssef Chahed, the prime minister and a competitor in the presidential race, for the decision to resurrect the 2016 allegations of tax evasion and money laundering. Mr Karoui has denied all the charges and, unless convicted, will be able to stand in the September 15 poll, even if he is still in jail.

His arrest and the presence of more than 20 other candidates on the ballot paper have added to the uncertainty about who will secure the top job in the Arab world’s only democracy. In a line-up that also includes Tunisia’s defence minister and a senior Islamist leader backed by the largest party in parliament, few would predict who the next president will be — a rarity in a region where political change through the ballot box remains unusual.

Of the Arab countries that rose up against dictatorship in 2011, Tunisia is considered the only successful example of a democratic transition.

Unlike in the other elections held since 2011, the bitter polarisation between Islamists and their secular opponents that almost scuppered the transition in its early years has largely faded, a development commentators see as positive.

Nahda, the party rooted in the country’s Islamist movement and the biggest force in parliament, has emphasised its moderate credentials and willingness to compromise with its political rivals. Years of austerity and tough economic conditions have meant that voters are less focused on ideology and more on declining living standards.

“We have been saying that ideology is not the issue,” said Said Ferjani, a senior Nahda leader. “You have to deliver to citizens their needs and to deliver prosperity. Even among our base, ideology has faded and people want jobs, better healthcare and better education and infrastructure. The rest has become increasingly irrelevant.”

The secular camp has also fractured into several groups, according to Hamza Meddeb, non-resident scholar at the Carnegie Middle East Center think tank. “Many of them have been allies of the Islamists in government, so they cannot mobilise a narrative of protecting society from the Islamists.”

This has all contributed to the rise of Mr Karoui, founder of the Nessma TV channel. Dubbed Tunisia’s equivalent to Italian media magnate Silvio Berlusconi, he previously backed Nidaa Tounes, the party that brought together remnants of the old regime, secular and rightwing figures to fight Nahda in the last elections. The 56-year-old has since formed his own party, Qalb Tounes.

Even though the accusations against him have long been common knowledge, his frequent TV appearances and philanthropy on camera—such as funding medical treatment for the poor — have secured him a large following.

This largesse has resonated with Tunisia’s voters who are struggling to get by in an economy battered by political uncertainty and terrorism attacks. Under a loan agreement with the IMF, the government has had to cut spending and contain the civil service wage bill. This led to periodic outbursts of widespread rioting by people angry at job lessness and austerity measures.

Unless Mr Karoui is convicted before the election — unlikely because of the short timeframe, analysts said — his name will be on the ballot.

The latest opinion poll, published in July before his arrest, forecast his party would secure 30 percent of the vote, compared with 17 percent for Nahda.

“Karoui has been clearly focusing on poor people and clearly arguing that they have been abandoned,” said Mr Meddeb. “He is playing the part of antiestablishment even if he is establishment in every way.”

Sentence:
In a line-up that also includes Tunisia’s defence minister and a senior Islamist leader backed by the largest party in parliament, few would predict who the next president will be — a rarity in a region where political change through the ballot box remains unusual.
在包括突尼斯国防部长和一名得到议会最大政党支持的伊斯兰教高级领导人在内的候选人名单中，几乎没有人会预测谁将成为下一任总统——在一个通过投票箱进行政治变革仍不寻常的地区，这是罕见的。

Unlike in the other elections held since 2011, the bitter polarisation between Islamists and their secular opponents that almost scuppered the transition in its early years has largely faded, a development commentators see as positive.
与2011年以来举行的其他选举不同，伊斯兰主义者和他们的世俗对手之间的激烈两极分化已经基本消退，发展评论员认为这种分化是积极的。

Years of austerity and tough economic conditions have meant that voters are less focused on ideology and more on declining living standards.
多年的紧缩和严峻的经济形势意味着选民们不再那么关注意识形态，而是更多地关注生活水平的下降。

Many of them have been allies of the Islamists in government, so they cannot mobilise a narrative of protecting society fromthe Islamists.
他们中的许多人都是伊斯兰主义者在政府中的盟友，因此他们无法发动一场保护社会免受伊斯兰主义者侵害的宣传。

This largesse has resonated with Tunisia’s voters who are struggling to get by in an economy battered by political uncertainty and terrorism attacks.
这一慷慨之举引起了突尼斯选民的共鸣，他们在政治不确定性和恐怖袭击重创的经济中艰难度日。

“He is playing the part of antiestablishment even if he is establishment in every way.”
“他在扮演反正统派的角色，即使他在各方面都是正统派。”