Facebook acquired CTRL-Labs, a startup that is developing a technology to enable people to manage computers with their brains. It has designed a wristband that captures signals sent from the brain to the hand and transmits them to a computer. The head of Facebook’s virtual reality business said this allows someone to share a digital photo “just by…intending to”.

Adam Neumann quit as chief executive of  WeWork, the office-rental startup that he helped found. He had been blamed by investors for the postponement of WeWork’s IPO, which was shelved after a sharp drop in its expected value. Mr Neumann is staying on as chairman, but is reportedly ceding control of WeWork by curtailing his shareholder voting power.

About to be stubbed out?
Juul replaced its chief executive, as concerns mount about the health risks of e-cigarettes. The firm’s new boss comes from Altria, a tobacco company with a 35% stake in Juul. Health officials have identified hundreds of cases of lung illness related to vaping. Walmart decided to stop selling e-cigarettes because of the “regulatory complexity and uncertainty”. Massachusetts banned the sale of all vaping products for four months.

With the market for e-cigarettes facing a cloudy future, Philip Morris International and Altria ended their attempt to merge, reportedly in part because of the risk from Altria’s exposure to Juul.

German prosecutors charged Volkswagen’s chief executive, Herbert Diess, and chairman, Hans Dieter Pötsch, with failing to tell investors in the summer of 2015 that the carmaker was being investigated for cheating emissions tests. When news broke of the scandal in September that year VW’s share price plunged. Martin Winterkorn, the company’s CEO at the time, was also charged (he is also facing separate indictments of fraud). All three deny the charges.

Nissan and Carlos Ghosn settled with America’s Securities and Exchange Commission for filing fraudulent financial forms relating to his retirement package. Mr Ghosn was sacked by the Japanese carmaker as chairman last November for various alleged misdeeds and awaits trial in Tokyo. Both he and Nissan neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.

Once described as a “Tesla killer”, NIO shed a quarter of its stockmarket value after reporting a big quarterly loss and drop in sales. The Chinese maker of electric vehicles has been hurt by a recall related to battery problems and the phasing-out of Chinese subsidies for green-energy cars.

Kristalina Georgieva was confirmed as the new managing director of the IMF. Ms Georgieva, a Bulgarian, is the first person from a developing economy to hold the job. In a speech she said the world must prepare for a downturn.

The EU’s second-highest court struck down the European Commission’s finding in 2015 that Starbucks had benefited from illegal tax breaks in the Netherlands.

Anheuser-Busch InBev priced the shares being sold in the forthcoming IPO of its Asian business at the bottom end of an indicative range it had set. The brewer has already sold some of the assets in the business, but the scaled-down flotation in Hong Kong should still raise at least $5bn, which would make it the world’s second-largest IPO this year, after Uber.

Royal Bank of Scotland appointed Alison Rose as chief executive, succeeding Ross McEwan, who has held the job for six years. Ms Rose takes over at a challenging time for RBS. The bank is still majority owned by the taxpayer, 11years after a bail-out. The government’s plan to return it to full private ownership by 2024 is less certain given RBS’s recent warning that Brexit could affect its profit.

The collapse of Thomas Cook led to the largest ever peacetime repatriation in Britain, as the government chartered planes to return 150,000 stranded tourists. The holiday firm requested a state bail-out, which was rejected amid reports that executives were still rewarding themselves hefty pay packages. Condor, a German airline and subsidiary of Thomas Cook, had better luck, securing a bridging loan backed by the German government to keep it flying.

A lot of spin
Peloton launched its IPO on the NASDAQ stockmarket, pricing its shares at the higher end of expectations. It describes itself as “an innovation company transforming the lives of people around the world through our ever-evolving fitness platform”. Translated, that means selling internetconnected bikes for $2,245 and subscriptions to workout plans. A sensation with svelte hipster-types, its finances are a bit flabby; it lost $196m in its latest financial year. Peloton will have to up the pace as it becomes a public company.

Sentence:
The EU’s second-highest court struck down the European Commission’s finding in 2015 that Starbucks had benefited from illegal tax breaks in the Netherlands.
欧盟第二高等法院驳回了欧盟委员会2015年的一项裁决，即星巴克在荷兰享受了非法税收优惠。

Anheuser-Busch InBev priced the shares being sold in the forthcoming ipo of its Asian business at the bottom end of an indicative range it had set.
安海斯-布希英博(Anheuser-Busch InBev)将在其亚洲业务即将进行的首次公开发行(ipo)中发行的股票定价在其设定的一个指示区间的低端。

Peloton launched its IPO on the NASDAQ stockmarket, pricing its shares at the higher end of expectations.
Peloton在纳斯达克上市，其股票定价在预期的高端。

It describes itself as “an innovation company transforming the lives of people around the world through our ever-evolving fitness platform”.
该公司将自己描述为“一家通过不断发展的健身平台改变世界各地人们生活的创新公司”。

Translated, that means selling internetconnected bikes for $2,245 and subscriptions to workout plans.
换句话说，这意味着以2245美元的价格出售联网自行车，并订阅健身计划。

A sensation with svelte hipster-types, its finances are a bit flabby;it lost $196m in its latest financial year.
有点苗条的潮人的感觉，它的财务状况有点不稳定;在最近一个财政年度，该公司亏损1.96亿美元。

Peloton will have to up the pace as it becomes a public company.
Peloton将不得不加快步伐成为一家上市公司。