Robert Mugabe

Robert Gabriel Mugabe, hero and destroyer of Zimbabwe, died on September 6th, aged 95

Books he trusted. One was usually in his hand in those first, mostly happy, years as Zimbabwe’s leader. He would be home at State House by 5.30pm, slamming doors so that his beloved wife Sally would know to come rushing. They crumpled together on a low armchair, almost on each other’s laps, she eating custard as he sipped tea. Then he would drape a long arm round her while turning with the other the pages of a favourite novel, usually British, often a Graham Greene.

Written words Robert Mugabe could love. It was real live people who proved difficult. A shy, surly boy, he sought no friends in Kutama, his village. Later he admitted it frankly: “I lived in my mind a lot. I liked talking to myself, reciting little poems and so on; reading things aloud to myself.” A loner, he hated scrapping with sticks, running, boys’ boisterous games, communal life. A brother, Donato, thought him “lazy, just reading all the time”. Even at chores, in the shade of the bush while snaring birds or tramping in the dust to herd cattle, he would read. “He held the book in one hand and the whip in the other. It was a strange thing for all of us to see,” recalled Donato.

The Irish priest at the Catholic mission in Kutama thought he had “unusual gravitas” and would “be an important somebody”. He was at mass daily, most dutifully after his brother, Michael, was poisoned. Years of teaching study followed: first in Southern Rhodesia, then at Fort Hare, South Africa, the crucible for so many African nationalist leaders, and lastly in Ghana, where he met Sally.

As an African nationalist in Rhodesia, ruled by Ian Smith in the name of white supremacy, jail was inevitable. His 11 years behind bars he recalled as a chunk of life pointlessly stolen away. Again, books sustained him. He acquired seven degrees. As it did for Mandela, Nkrumah and Kenyatta, prison also earned him political credibility. Outdoor activity was harder. In Mozambique after his release, as his fellow liberation fighters strutted in fatigues, he sweltered in a suit.

Throughout his life, rivals somehow met timely deaths. Cars were flattened by lorries on remote roads; flames devoured a farmhouse; opponents learned to fear high open windows. Few loved him. The British sometimes sneered. At Lancaster House in London, amid talk of independence and elections, the British foreign secretary found him “reptilian”, “not human”. At home, voters thought otherwise. He swept to glorious, genuine victory in the first free elections in 1980. To the shock and relief of Smith and the white farmers, he let them stay on, keeping their land if they abstained from politics. Though he had declared himself a Marxist- Leninist-Maoist, he now preached reconciliation. And the teacher flourished. Zimbabweans were among the best educated people in Africa, and evenings at State House saw the prime minister personally tutoring his staff.

He blamed Britain for all ills, including his country’s complete economic collapse in the first decade of this century. Inflation soared to 500trn%; a generation of people fled. The British, he claimed, had broken their word on paying for land reform. Yet he hankered for England, London shopping, Savile Row, cricket and high tea with “Johnny” Major. He was fonder still of royalty, telling with a twinkle of the queen’s happiness on visits to Zimbabwe.

For all his literary habits, the whip was never far away. In the early 1980s he turned to North Korea to train soldiers to crush the main minority tribe, the Ndebele. He admitted his security men had committed some “excesses” when entire village communities were burnt in their huts. He denied talk of 20,000 victims and called himself forgiving—“otherwise I would have slaughtered lots of people”. The rest of the world did not much notice, or care to bring him to book. Yet his fear of prosecution for crimes against humanity may have encouraged him to cling to office, despite his conviction that only God could remove him.

His rule grew darker, possibly because Sally had died and been replaced by Grace, an ex-secretary 40 years younger than he was, even fonder of shops and more ambitious for political power. His opponents had once been co-opted; now he crushed them. Young thugs, egged on by him, punished white farmers by taking their land away. It was given to his friends, “war veterans” like himself, whether or not they had any idea how to work it. As a farming economy, Zimbabwe collapsed.

Frugality, brutality
He never saw tragedy in his country’s immiseration, only meddling by outsiders or vicious threats by rivals. The army and his Central Intelligence Organisation ensured his grip on power, rigging elections, killing opponents, closing newspapers and wiping away a generation of bright and tolerant Zimbabweans who could have led Africa. His people succumbed to hunger, aids, cholera and despair. Each year he held a more lavish public birthday party, beaming with delight as he cut a massive cake.

In the end it was the dismissal and flight abroad of his most trusted lieutenant, Emmerson Mnangagwa, that led to his downfall in 2017. Grace had overplayed her hand in having him sacked, and the army rolled into Harare. The generals glibly insisted this was not a coup, saying they were dealing with “traitors”. By this, they did not seem to mean him. But they duly installed Mr Mnangagwa as president.

Asked why people feared him, he said he thought it was “perhaps because I’m quiet, and also because I believe in what I say.” His life was mostly frugal: rising early to practise yoga; working daily at his desk, in his mustard-yellow chair beside a huge map of the world; nibbling rice and corn meal by hand, the African way. He showed few of the vices—women, booze, feasts—associated with the caricature of an African dictator. But he had the usual vanity. Asked by The Economist, well into his 80s, when he would retire, he laughed that he would rule until he was “a hundred years old”. The tragedy for Zimbabwe was how close he got to keeping his word.

Sentence:
Even at chores, in the shade of the bush while snaring birds or tramping in the dust to herd cattle, he would read.
即使是在做杂务的时候，当他在灌木丛的树荫下捕鸟或踩着尘土赶牛的时候，他也会读书。

He held the book in one hand and the whip in the other.It was a strange thing for all of us to see.
他一手拿着书，一手拿着鞭子。这对我们所有人来说都是一件奇怪的事情。

The Irish priest at the Catholic mission in Kutama thought he had “unusual gravitas” and would “be an important somebody”.
库塔马天主教传教会的爱尔兰牧师认为他有“不寻常的庄重”，会“成为一个重要人物”。

Years of teaching study followed: first in Southern Rhodesia, then at Fort Hare, South Africa, the crucible for so many African nationalist leaders, and lastly in Ghana, where he met Sally.
随后，他进行了多年的教学研究:首先是在南罗得西亚，然后是在南非的黑尔堡，那里是许多非洲民族主义领导人的熔炉，最后是在加纳，他在那里遇到了萨莉。

His 11 years behind bars he recalled as a chunk of life pointlessly stolen away.
他回忆说，他在监狱里度过的11年，就像一大块生命被毫无意义地偷走了。

In Mozambique after his release, as his fellow liberation fighters strutted in fatigues, he sweltered in a suit.
在他获释后的莫桑比克，当他的解放战士战友们穿着军装昂首阔步时，他却穿着西装，热得浑身发汗。

Throughout his life, rivals somehow met timely deaths.
在他的一生中，他的对手们不知何故都及时地死去了。

Cars were flattened by lorries on remote roads;
在偏远的道路上，汽车被卡车夷为平地;

flames devoured a farmhouse;
火焰吞没了一座农舍;

opponents learned to fear high open windows.
反对者学会了害怕高开的窗户。

He swept to glorious, genuine victory in the first free elections in 1980.
在1980年的第一次自由选举中，他大获全胜，赢得了辉煌而真正的胜利。

Young thugs, egged on by him, punished white farmers by taking their land away.
在他的怂恿下，年轻的暴徒们以没收白人农民的土地来惩罚他们。

It was given to his friends, “war veterans” like himself, whether or not they had any idea how to work it.
土地被送给了他的朋友，像他一样的“战争老兵”，不管他们是否知道如何使用土地。

As a farming economy, Zimbabwe collapsed.
津巴布韦的农业经济崩溃了。

The army and his Central Intelligence Organisation ensured his grip on power, rigging elections, killing opponents, closing newspapers and wiping away a generation of bright and tolerant Zimbabweans who could have led Africa.
军队和他的中央情报局确保了他对权力的掌控，操纵选举，杀害对手，关闭报纸，消灭了本可以领导非洲的一代聪明、宽容的津巴布韦人。

His life was mostly frugal: rising early to practise yoga;
他的生活基本上很节俭:早起练瑜伽;

working daily at his desk, in his mustard-yellow chair beside a huge map of the world;
他每天都在办公桌前工作，在一张巨大的世界地图旁边，坐在他那把黄褐色的椅子上;

nibbling rice and corn meal by hand, the African way.
（饮食是）手抓米饭和玉米，非洲的方式。

He showed few of the vices—women, booze, feasts—associated with the caricature of an African dictator.
他几乎没有展示与讽刺非洲独裁者有关的那些恶习--女人、酒宴、盛宴。

But he had the usual vanity.
但他有普通人的虚荣心。