Climate change touches everything

It must be tackled urgently and clear-headedly

From one year to the next, you cannot feel the difference. As the decades stack up, though, the story becomes clear. The stripes on our cover represent the world’s average temperature in every year since the mid-19th century. Dark blue years are cooler and red ones warmer than the average in 1971-2000. The cumulative change jumps out. The world is about 1oC hotter than when this newspaper was young.

To represent this span of human history as a set of simple stripes may seem reductive. These are years which saw world wars, technological innovation, trade on an unprecedented scale and a staggering creation of wealth. But those complex histories and the simplifying stripes share a common cause. The changing climate of the planet and the remarkable growth in human numbers and riches both stem from the combustion of billions of tonnes of fossil fuel to produce industrial power, electricity, transport, heating and, more recently, computation.

All around us
That the changing climate touches everything and everyone should be obvious—as it should be that the poor and marginalised have most to lose when the weather turns against them. What is less obvious, but just as important, is that, because the processes that force climate change are built into the foundations of the world economy and of geopolitics, measures to check climate change have to be similarly wide-ranging and all-encompassing. To decarbonise an economy is not a simple subtraction; it requires a near-complete overhaul.

To some—including many of the millions of young idealists who, as The Economist went to press, were preparing for a global climate strike, and many of those who will throng the streets of New York during next week’s UN General Assembly—this overhaul requires nothing less than the gelding or uprooting of capitalism. After all, the system grew up through the use of fossil fuels in ever-greater quantities. And the market economy has so far done very little to help. Almost half the atmosphere’s extra, human-made carbon dioxide was put there after the turn of the 1990s, when scientists sounded the alarm and governments said they would act.

In fact, to conclude that climate change should mean shackling capitalism would be wrong-headed and damaging. There is an immense value in the vigour, innovation and adaptability that free markets bring to the economies that took shape over that striped century. Market economies are the wells that produce the response climate change requires. Competitive markets properly incentivised, and politicians serving a genuine popular thirst for action, can do more than any other system to limit the warming that can be forestalled and cope with that which cannot.

Sentence:
What is less obvious, but just as important, is that, because the processes that force climate change are built into the foundations of the world economy and of geopolitics, measures to check climate change have to be similarly wide-ranging and all-encompassing.
不那么明显但同样重要的是，由于推动气候变化的过程已成为世界经济和地缘政治的基础，遏制气候变化的措施必须同样广泛和全面。

Almost half the atmosphere’s extra, human- made carbon dioxide was put there after the turn of the 1990s, when scientists sounded the alarm and governments said they would act.
在20世纪90年代的时候,科学家们发出了警报,政府表示他们将采取行动,几乎一半的大气层是额外的,人类制造的二氧化碳。

In fact, to conclude that climate change should mean shackling capitalism would be wrong-headed and damaging.
事实上，得出气候变化应该意味着束缚资本主义的结论是错误的和破坏性的。

There is an immense value in the vigour, innovation and adaptability that free markets bring to the economies that took shape over that striped century.
自由市场给在那个斑驳的世纪中形成的经济带来的活力、创新和适应性具有巨大的价值。

Market economies are the wells that produce the response climate change requires.
市场经济是应对气候变化的源泉。

Competitive markets properly incentivised, and politicians serving a genuine popular thirst for action, can do more than any other system to limit the warming that can be forestalled and cope with that which cannot.
竞争激烈的市场得到了适当的激励，政客们真正满足了民众对行动的渴望，在限制气候变暖方面，他们比任何其他体系都能做得更多。