Ursula von der Leyen, the next president of the European Commission, unveiled her proposed team of commissioners. Three new “executive vice-presidents” will help her. Margrethe Vestager is the most interesting of these, with the key job of making Europe “fit for the digital age” on top of her powerful existing role overseeing competition policy.

Donald Trump sought his fourth national security adviser in less than three years after firing John Bolton, who had been in the job for 17 months. Mr Bolton says he resigned before Mr Trump sacked him. The pair had not seen eye to eye: Mr Bolton was far more hawkish on Iran, North Korea and Russia.

At least one of Mr Bolton’s views appears to have prevailed. Mr Trump abruptly cancelled a peace summit with the Taliban. Hawks had fretted that Mr Trump’s proposed deal made a big concession—the partial withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan— without even securing a ceasefire from the Taliban.

The CIA removed one of its most highly placed intelligence sources from the Kremlin in 2017, according to press reports, in part because of concerns that the new Trump administration was careless in handling sensitive material. The decision to extract the spy came shortly after Mr Trump discussed classified information with the Russian foreign minister during a meeting at the White House.

Indian scientists lost contact with the country’s first lunar lander during its final descent to the Moon. The craft’s mothership, in orbit around the Moon, later located it near its intended landing site, but attempts to resume contact with the probe have failed.

Shinzo Abe, Japan’s prime minister, reshuffled his cabinet. Shinjiro Koizumi, the son of a former prime minister and a rising star within the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, was appointed environment minister.

North Korea offered to resume disarmament talks with America. But it also tested two short-range missiles, the eighth such exercise since July.

The race begins
Canada’s prime minister, Justin Trudeau, formally began the campaign leading up to a general election on October 21st. Both his Liberal Party and the opposition Conservatives, led by Andrew Scheer, have the support of about 30% of voters. Among the main issues will be climate change and allegations that Mr Trudeau’s office improperly tried to end the prosecution of snc-Lavalin, a big engineering firm, for paying bribes.

Marcelo Crivella, the mayor of Rio de Janeiro, who is a former evangelical bishop, ordered the confiscation from a book fair of a comic book that depicts two men kissing. He said “Avengers: The Children’s Crusade” was unsuitable for children. The president of Brazil’s supreme court ruled the book-grabbing unlawful.

Migrants not welcome
Violent protests in South Africa against immigrants from other African countries entered their second week. About 12 people have been killed in the riots. Other African nations have responded with outrage. A Nigerian airline began evacuating terrified Nigerians who want to leave South Africa.

Robert Mugabe, who ruled Zimbabwe for almost four decades after its independence until he was overthrown in a coup in 2017, died aged 95. Much-praised by leftists when he took over, he swiftly started locking up and murdering his opponents. His policies caused economic collapse, hyperinflation and a mass exodus of hungry Zimbabweans. Almost 300,000 people have fled their homes in Burkina Faso because of attacks by jihadist groups. The country, which was moving towards democracy, has been destabilised by jihadist insurgencies in neighbouring Mali and Niger.

Israel’s prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, promised to annex the Jordan Valley and northern Dead Sea (about a third of the occupied West Bank) if he wins a general election on September 17th. Sceptics called it a political stunt to woo hawkish voters.

An Iranian tanker seized by British marines in July delivered its cargo of oil to Syria. The ship was released after Iran promised that it was not bound for Syria. Britain said the move represented an “unacceptable violation of international norms” and summoned Iran’s ambassador in London. It was also revealed that Iran had detained three westerners.

Russia and Ukraine swapped prisoners who had been held over the conflict in east Ukraine. Dozens were freed in what is seen as a modest step towards easing tensions.

Sentence:
Ursula von der Leyen, the next president of the European Commission, unveiled her proposed team of commissioners.
欧盟委员会(European Commission)下任主席乌苏拉•冯•德莱恩(Ursula von der Leyen)公布了她提议的委员团队。

Three new “executive vice-presidents” will help her.
三位新的“执行副总裁”将帮助她。

Margrethe Vestager is the most interesting of these, with the key job of making Europe “fit for the digital age” on top of her powerful existing role overseeing competition policy.
玛格丽特•维斯特格(Margrethe Vestager)是其中最有趣的一位，她的关键工作是让欧洲“适应数字时代”，而她现有的重要职责是监督竞争政策。

At least one of Mr Bolton’s views appears to have prevailed.
波顿的观点似乎至少有一种占了上风。

Mr Trump abruptly cancelled a peace summit with the Taliban.
特朗普突然取消了与塔利班的和平峰会。

Hawks had fretted that Mr Trump’s proposed deal made a big concession—the partial withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan— without even securing a ceasefire from the Taliban.
鹰派人士曾担心，特朗普提议的协议在没有确保塔利班停火的情况下，做出了很大让步——美国军队部分撤出阿富汗。

An Iranian tanker seized by British marines in July delivered its cargo of oil to Syria.
今年7月，一艘被英国海军陆战队扣押的伊朗油轮向叙利亚运送石油。

The ship was released after Iran promised that it was not bound for Syria.
这艘船是在伊朗承诺不开往叙利亚后被释放的。

Britain said the move represented an “unacceptable violation of international norms” and summoned Iran’s ambassador in London.
英国表示，此举“违反了国际准则，令人无法接受”，并召见了伊朗驻伦敦大使。