WeWork postponed its IPO amid tepid interest from investors and a drop in its expected stockmarket value. The office-rental firm has never made a profit and was trying to go public amid market doubts about the prospects for other loss-making startups that have floated shares this year. Adam Neumann, WeWork’s hipsterish CEO, said he was “humbled” by the experience.

Saudi Arabia sought to assure markets that oil production levels would return to normal within weeks following the attack on two oil facilities, which cut around 5.7m barrels of oil a day from output. Analysts are sceptical that production can recover in such a short timespan. The attack had caused a huge spike in the price of Brent crude.

The Federal Reserve sliced its benchmark interest rate for the second time within two months, by another quarter of a percentage point to a range of between 1.75% and 2%. There has been mounting evidence that uncertainty over trade is starting to drag on the economy, especially manufacturing. But with services flourishing and consumer spending buoyant, two of the Fed’s rate setters voted against a cut.

Earlier the Fed injected billions of dollars into the financial system because of an unexpected shortfall of cash available to banks, leading to a surge in the “repo rate” for overnight loans. It was the Fed’s first such surprise intervention in money markets since the financial crisis.

Purdue Pharma filed for bankruptcy protection, part of a tentative settlement it has reached with 24 states and thousands of local governments to resolve claims that the aggressive marketing of its OxyContin painkiller contributed to America’s opioid crisis. Under its bankruptcy plan the drugmaker will become a public trust and the Sackler family will relinquish ownership. Purdue says the settlement is worth $10bn, but that is not enough for the two dozen states, including California and New York, that are contesting the agreement.

Under pressure from an activist investor, AT&T was reportedly considering whether to divest its DirecTV business, a satellite-media provider that the telecoms giant acquired in 2015 as part of its diversification strategy. Elliott, an activist hedge fund, revealed recently that it has bought a stake in AT&T and criticised its management’s approach to acquisitions, which has saddled the company with around $160bn in net debt.

The United Automobile Workers union held its first strike at General Motors since 2007. Around 48,000 employees downed tools, disrupting more than 50 factories and car-parts warehouses. A collective bargaining deal agreed to in 2015 has expired, but the company says the pay rises and other terms in a new contract are generous. The union argues that it made sacrifices when gm faced bankruptcy in 2009, and that its workers should be rewarded for creating “a healthy, profitable industry”.

A huge strike paralysed much of Paris, particularly its Metro, in protest at plans by the president, Emmanuel Macron, to rationalise France’s excessively generous pension system.

The “Supreme Court”
Facebook announced its plans for an independent “oversight board” to regulate decisions it makes about censorship on the social network. The board will hear its first cases in 2020, and will eventually have 40 members.

The move towards autonomous cars stepped up a gear when Shanghai became the first city in China to allow test vehicles to carry passengers. The riders will be volunteers and a driver will sit in the car, but if there are no accidents on Shanghai’s complex and busy road system the three car firms that have been granted the permits will get the green light to increase their fleets.

Donald Trump said he would impose fresh sanctions on Iran following an audacious missile and drone attack on two oil facilities in Saudi Arabia: the Abqaiq crude-processing plant, the biggest of its kind in the world, and the Khurais oilfield. Claims by Houthi rebels in Yemen that they staged the attack were dismissed by American and Saudi officials. The Houthis are backed by Iran in a proxy war fighting a Saudi-led coalition. Iran insists it was not responsible for the strike.

Mr Trump said that his administration would abrogate California’s laws on car emissions, which set higher standards than federal rules, “in order to produce far less expensive cars for the consumer”. Regulators have often griped that the state dictates rules for the country as a whole. California vowed to fight the administration all the way to the Supreme Court.

The big smoke
Fires raging in the forests of Borneo and Sumatra blanketed South-East Asia in a thick haze. Indonesia deployed more than 9,000 people to fight them, but the unusually dry conditions hampered their efforts.

While Britain’s Supreme Court reviewed the legality of his suspension of Parliament, Boris Johnson met European leaders in Luxembourg, where he found little respite from the turmoil at home. The British prime minister’s Luxembourger counterpart mocked him for skipping a press conference because anti-Brexit protesters were too rowdy. Other EU leaders said trying to humiliate Mr Johnson was a mistake; a close aide of Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, said the episode “did not serve the European cause”.

Sentence:
Rodrigo Duterte, the president of the Philippines, appeared to admit that he was behind an assassination attempt on a local official whom he had accused of being involved in the drugs trade.
菲律宾总统领导人罗德里戈•杜特尔特(Rodrigo Duterte)似乎承认，他策划了一起针对一名地方官员的暗杀行动，他曾指控这名官员参与毒品交易。

Mr Trump said that his administration would abrogate California’s laws on car emissions, which set higher standards than federal rules, “in order to produce far less expensive cars for the consumer”.
特朗普表示，特朗普政府将废除了加州有关汽车排放的法律，该法律设定的标准高于联邦法规，“目的是为消费者生产便宜得多的汽车”。

Regulators have often griped that the state dictates rules for the country as a whole.
监管机构经常抱怨说，国家为整个国家制定规则。

California vowed to fight the administration all the way to the Supreme Court.
加州发誓要与特朗普政府斗争到底，直到最高法院。

While Britain’s Supreme Court reviewed the legality of his suspension of Parliament, Boris Johnson met European leaders in Luxembourg, where he found little respite from the turmoil at home.
当英国最高法院(Supreme Court)审查他暂停议会的合法性时，鲍里斯•约翰逊(Boris Johnson)在卢森堡会见了欧洲领导人，他在国内的动荡中几乎没有找到喘息的机会。

The British prime minister’s Luxembourger counterpart mocked him for skipping a press conference because anti-Brexit protesters were too rowdy.
卢森堡的首相嘲笑他没有出席新闻发布会，因为反对英国退欧的抗议者太过吵闹。