​       The world is losing the war against climate change

1. EARTH is smouldering. From Seattle to Siberia this summer, flames have consumed swathes of the northern hemisphere. One of 18 wildfires sweeping through California, among the worst in the state’s history, is generating such heat that it created its own weather. Fires that raged through a coastal area near Athens last week killed 91 (see article). Elsewhere people are suffocating in the heat. Roughly 125 have died in Japan as the result of a heatwave that pushed temperatures in Tokyo above 40°C for the first time. 

   smoulder：

   if something such as wood smoulders, it burns slowly without a flame
   无火焰地慢慢烧，闷燃

   swathe：大片土地

   suffocate：

   be suffocating
   to feel uncomfortable because there is not enough fresh air
   感到窒息，感到呼吸困难
   Can you open a window? I’m suffocating.
   你能开扇窗吗？ 我觉得很闷。

   

2. Such calamities, once considered freakish, are now commonplace. Scientists have long cautioned that, as the planet warms—it is roughly 1°C hotter today than before the industrial age’s first furnaces were lit—weather patterns will go berserk. An early analysis has found that this sweltering European summer would have been less than half as likely were it not for human-induced global warming. 

   calamity：

   a terrible and unexpected event that causes a lot of damage or suffering

   灾难，祸患

   It will be a calamity for farmers if the crops fail again.

   如果再次歉收，将会给农民带来灾难。 

   freakish：

   very unusual and strange, and sometimes frightening

   反常的，异乎寻常的

   berserk：狂暴地，狂怒地

   

3. Yet as the impact of climate change becomes more evident, so too does the scale of the challenge ahead. Three years after countries vowed in Paris to keep warming “well below” 2°C relative to pre-industrial levels, greenhouse-gas emissions are up again. So are investments in oil and gas. In 2017, for the first time in four years, demand for coal rose. Subsidies for renewables, such as wind and solar power, are dwindling in many places and investment has stalled; climate-friendly nuclear power is expensive and unpopular. It is tempting to think these are temporary setbacks and that mankind, with its instinct for self-preservation, will muddle through to a victory over global warming. In fact, it is losing the war. 

   relative to：相对于

   dwindle：

   to gradually become less and less or smaller and smaller

   逐渐减少，缩小，变小

   The elephant population is dwindling. 

   大象的数量在减少。 

   The stream has dwindled to a trickle. 

   这条小河变成了细流。 

   

4. Insufficient progress is not to say no progress at all. As solar panels, wind turbines and other low-carbon technologies become cheaper and more efficient, their use has surged. Last year the number of electric cars sold around the world passed 1m. In some sunny and blustery places renewable power now costs less than coal. 

   blustery：大风的

   

5. Public concern is picking up. A poll last year of 38 countries found that 61% of people see climate change as a big threat; only the terrorists of Islamic State inspired more fear. In the West campaigning investors talk of divesting from companies that make their living from coal and oil. Despite President Donald Trump’s decision to yank America out of the Paris deal, many American cities and states have reaffirmed their commitment to it. Even some of the sceptic-in-chief’s fellow Republicans appear less averse to tackling the problem (see article). In smog-shrouded China and India, citizens choking on fumes are prompting governments to rethink plans to rely heavily on coal to electrify their countries. 

   campaigning investor：竞选活动的投资者（候选人支持者）

   divest：剥离，脱去

   yank：猛拉

   averse：反对的，不愿意的

   Even some of the sceptic-in-chief’s fellow Republicans appear less averse to tackling the problem.

   即使是一些持怀疑主义的共和党人也不太反对解决这个问题.

   shrouded：覆盖的

   choke：窒息，呼吸困难

   fume：烟，烟气

   

6. Optimists say that decarbonisation is within reach. Yet, even allowing for the familiar complexities of agreeing on and enforcing global targets, it is proving extraordinarily difficult.

   carbonisation：碳化，碳化效用

   within reach：够得着，可实现

   allow for：考虑到，顾及

   PHRASAL VERB if you allow for certain problems or expenses, you include some extra time or money in your planning so that you can deal with them if they occur. 
   (在计划中) 考虑到
   You have to allow for a certain amount of error. 
   你必须考虑到一定数量的错误。

   Allow time for us

   留出时间让我们

   complexity：复杂度

   

7. One reason is soaring energy demand, especially in developing Asia. In 2006-16, as Asia’s emerging economies forged ahead, their energy consumption rose by 40%. The use of coal, easily the dirtiest fossil fuel, grew at an annual rate of 3.1%. Use of cleaner natural gas grew by 5.2% and of oil by 2.9%. Fossil fuels are easier to hook up to today’s grids than renewables that depend on the sun shining and the wind blowing. Even as green fund managers threaten to pull back from oil companies, state-owned behemoths in the Middle East and Russia see Asian demand as a compelling reason to invest.

   forge ahead：继续进行，向前迈进

   hook up to：连接到，挂钩

   Applications can hook up to this event and run custom code. 
   应用程序可以挂钩到这个事件，并执行自定义代码。

   grid：输电网

   compelling：引人注目的，有力的

   

8. The second reason is economic and political inertia. The more fossil fuels a country consumes, the harder it is to wean itself off them. Powerful lobbies, and the voters who back them, entrench coal in the energy mix. Reshaping existing ways of doing things can take years. In 2017 Britain enjoyed its first coal-free day since igniting the Industrial Revolution in the 1800s. Coal generates not merely 80% of India’s electricity, but also underpins the economies of some of its poorest states (see Briefing). Panjandrums in Delhi are not keen to countenance the end of coal, lest that cripple the banking system, which lent it too much money, and the railways, which depend on it.

   inertia：惯性，惰性

   wean：使断奶，使断念，使放弃

   entrench：确立

   ignit：点燃

   countenance：支持，赞同

   lest：conj. 担心

   cripple：削弱

   panjandrum：首领，架子十足的官吏

   

9. Last is the technical challenge of stripping carbon out of industries beyond power generation. Steel, cement, farming, transport and other forms of economic activity account for over half of global carbon emissions. They are technically harder to clean up than power generation and are protected by vested industrial interests. Successes can turn out to be illusory. Because China’s 1m-plus electric cars draw their oomph from an electricity grid that draws two-thirds of its power from coal, they produce more carbon dioxide than some fuel-efficient petrol-driven models. Meanwhile, scrubbing CO{-2} from the atmosphere, which climate models imply is needed on a vast scale to meet the Paris target, attracts even less attention. 

   beyond：除...以外

   vest：授予，赋予；vested：既定的，既得的

   illusory：幻影的

   oomph：精力，活力，动力

   scrub：擦洗，擦净

   Meanwhile, scrubbing CO{-2} from the atmosphere, which climate models imply is needed on a vast scale to meet the Paris target, attracts even less attention.

   which is needed on a vast scale：which = scrubbing CO{-2} from the atmosphere

   

10. The world is not short of ideas to realise the Paris goal. Around 70 countries or regions, responsible for one-fifth of all emissions, now price carbon. Technologists beaver away on sturdier grids, zero-carbon steel, even carbon-negative cement, whose production absorbs more CO{-2} than it releases. All these efforts and more—including research into “solar geoengineering” to reflect sunlight back into space—should be redoubled. 

    beaver away：
    to work very hard, especially at writing or calculating something
    卖力地干，努力工作〔尤指写作或计算〕
    He’s been beavering away at his homework for hours.
    他埋头做作业已经有几个小时了。

    sturdy：结实的，坚实的，坚固的

    solar geoengineering：Solar radiation management (SRM or solar geoengineering) is a theoretical approach to reducing some of the impacts of climate change by reflecting a small amount of inbound sunlight back out into space. It is in the early stages of research, but it is already a controversial topic.

    

11. Yet none of these fixes will come to much unless climate listlessness is tackled head on. Western countries grew wealthy on a carbon-heavy diet of industrial development. They must honour their commitment in the Paris agreement to help poorer places both adapt to a warmer Earth and also abate future emissions without sacrificing the growth needed to leave poverty behind.

    honour：承兑

    adapt：适应

    abate：减轻，减少

    

12. Averting climate change will come at a short-term financial cost—although the shift from carbon may eventually enrich the economy, as the move to carbon-burning cars, lorries and electricity did in the 20th century. Politicians have an essential role to play in making the case for reform and in ensuring that the most vulnerable do not bear the brunt of the change. Perhaps global warming will help them fire up the collective will. Sadly, the world looks poised to get a lot hotter first.

    avert：避免，防止

    bear the brunt of：首当其冲

    collective will：集体意志，集权

    poised：摆好姿势不动的