​       Focus: ideology

1. This summer we are running week-long series focusing on a single subject. Here, in the fifth and final article on the modern state of political thought, we look at liberalism

   Liberalism is a historically winning formula, having engulfed the West after victories in the Glorious, American and French revolutions, and world wars both hot and cold. But today’s liberals grapple with two side-effects of success: complacency and resentment. The neoliberal economic consensus was shattered by the 2008 financial crash. Political outsiders like Donald Trump and Jeremy Corbyn came to the fore after liberals dismissed their candidacies as ridiculous; Brexit astonished the self-identified “liberal conservative” leader who had called the referendum. The far right now claims to be the champion of free speech, long a liberal pillar. Global resentment towards elites, a consequence of growing imbalances in wealth and power, has people fleeing the established centre and taking refuge behind angry strongmen. Western liberals are discovering that, when progress is perceived to benefit only the privileged, people stop believing in it. Liberalism will endure and evolve, but it needs ambition and ideas to avoid losing this time.

   engulf:

   if an unpleasant feeling engulfs you, you feel it very strongly
   〔不愉快的情感〕吞没，包围
   despair so great it threatened to engulf him
   几乎要将他压垮的绝望情绪
   to completely surround or cover something
   完全包围；遮住
   The building was engulfed in flames.
   那幢楼被大火吞没了

   grapple with:

   努力对付，尽力克服(困难)：
   Can they grapple with the complex situation?
   他们能处理复杂的局面吗?

   complacency :

   a feeling of satisfaction with a situation or with what you have achieved, so that you stop trying to improve or change things – used to show disapproval
   自满，自得〔含贬义〕
   Doctors have warned against complacency in fighting common diseases.
   医生警告说，治疗常见病不能一见好就掉以轻心。
   Despite yesterday’s win, there is clearly no room for complacency if the team want to stay top of the league.
   尽管这支球队昨天赢了，但要在联赛中独占鳌头，就不能骄傲自满。

   resentment:

   a feeling of anger because something has happened that you think is unfair

   愤恨，不满，憎恶

   [+ at/against/of etc]
   She was filled with deep resentment at being passed over for promotion.
   没被考虑升职，她感到很气愤。
   feel/harbour/bear resentment
   He felt considerable resentment towards Sheila for making him work late.
   希拉让他工作到这么晚，他很不满。

   shatter:

   to break suddenly into very small pieces, or to make something break in this way
   （使）粉碎，（使）破碎
   The explosion shattered the building.
   这次爆炸把大楼炸成一片废墟。
   [+ into]
   The plate hit the floor, and shattered into tiny bits.
   盘子掉到地板上，摔得粉碎。

   to completely destroy or ruin something such as someone’s hopes, beliefs or life
   毁坏〔生活〕，使〔希望、信念〕破灭
   A tragic accident shattered her dreams of Olympic glory.
   一场不幸的意外事故使她获得奥运奖牌的梦想破灭了。

   come to the fore:涌现，崭露头角

   Brexit astonished the self-identified “liberal conservative” leader who had called the referendum.

   英国退欧震惊了自称“自由派保守派”的领导人，他曾呼吁举行公投。

   The far right now claims to be the champion of free speech, long a liberal pillar. 

   极右势力现在宣称自己是言论自由的捍卫者，长期以来一直是自由主义的支柱。

   

2. The Turkish lira touched an all-time low of more than six to the dollar on Friday morning. The currency has now lost over a third of its value against the greenback this year. A diplomatic spat with America over the detention of a cleric shows no signs of ending, while investors worry about President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s meddlesome approach to monetary policy.

   spat:

   a short unimportant quarrel

   口角，小争吵

   meddlesome:

   a meddlesome person becomes involved in situations that do not concern them, in a way that annoys people
   好干预的；爱管闲事的

   

3. Japan’s economy bounced back to growth in the second quarter, thereby avoiding a technical recession. According to preliminary numbers, it expanded by an annualised 1.9%, well above economists’ forecasts, following a 0.9% contraction in the previous quarter. The turnaround was largely due to a revival in domestic demand. The current growth rate is substantially above Japan’s long-term trend.

   preliminary :初步的

   contraction :收缩，紧缩

   

4. An American judge authorised the seizure of Citgo Petroleum, which is majority-owned by Venezuela’s state oil company. The case was brought by Crystallex, a Canadian miner, which wants $1.4bn in compensation in a dispute with Caracas. Venezuela’s government has many unpaid creditors; others may now also move for a slice of Citgo, which operates American refineries and petrol stations.

   seizure :没收

   move for a slice of:分一杯羹

   

5. Saudi Arabia pressed analysts to alter their estimates of its oil output, according to the Wall Street Journal. The kingdom has reportedly told the OPEC cartel, of which it is the most important member, that it cut output in July, whereas independent analysts calculate that the Saudis raised it. The discrepancy could be a hefty 500,000 barrels per day.

   press :敦促，施压

   discrepancy:

   a difference between two amounts, details, reports etc that should be the same
   〔两个本该一样的数量、细节、报告等的〕不一致，不符，差异，出入
   [+ in]
   Police found discrepancies in the two men’s reports.
   警方发现两名男子的叙述不一致。
   [+ between]
   There is a large discrepancy between the ideal image of motherhood and the reality.
   理想的母亲形象与现实之间有很大的差异。

   

6. Adidas posted strong results. The German sportswear-maker said “net income from continuing operations” had grown to €418m ($485m) in the second quarter, 20% higher than last year. Partly helped by endorsements from celebrities such as Drake, a Canadian rapper, the firm has won market share in North America from Nike, its arch-rival. In western Europe, however, the opposite is true.

   endorsement :代言

   

7. Dozens of people travelling in a bus, including many children, were reportedly killed in a Saudi-led coalition air strike in Yemen. Most of the victims of the attack in Dahyan, in the rebel-held north of the country, were under ten years old, said the Red Cross. The coalition, which has American backing, said its actions were “legitimate”.

   

8.  “We must have dominance in space, and so we will,” Vice-President Mike Pence declared in a speech that fleshed out the Trump administration’s proposal to create a “Space Force”. Mr Pence said it would constitute a sixth branch of the American military forces, with a separate command structure, to be created by 2020. He requested $8bn to get it going.

   flesh out:

   If you flesh out something such as a story or plan, you add details and more information to it.
   充实 (故事或计划等)
   Permission for a warehouse development has already been granted and the developers are merely fleshing out the details. 
   货仓开发的许可证已获批准，开发商只是在充实细节