1. Even by the standard of his previous capricious outbursts, Elon Musk’s tweet that he is thinking about taking Tesla private left investors scratching their heads. Such a buyout would be the biggest in history. In a memo on the carmaker’s website, Mr Musk said he was considering the move to shield Tesla, which has been plagued by production problems, from the short-term demands of public markets and to stop short sellers from attacking Tesla’s shares. Some wondered whether such a significant disclosure about the business followed the proper regulatory rules. Mr Musk’s announcement came on the heels of reports that a Saudi investment fund had taken a stake in the company. 

   capricious:

   likely to change your mind suddenly or behave in an unexpected way
   反复无常的；任性的

   outburst:

   something you say suddenly that expresses a strong emotion, especially anger
   〔感情的〕突然迸发〔尤指怒火〕
   He later apologized for his outburst.他后来为自己发脾气而道歉。
   emotional/violent/angry outburst
   his father’s violent outbursts of temper
   他父亲的大发雷霆
   [+ of]
   an outburst of anger
   怒火的爆发
   a sudden short increase in an activity
   〔活动的〕突发，激增
   [+ of]
   an outburst of creative energy
   创作力的勃发

   on the heels of:紧跟，紧接着...

   

2. I’ll see your bet and raise you

   The trade war between America and China intensified. The Trump administration proceeded with plans to impose tariffs on a further 16bn-worth of goods from China, which come into effect on August 23rd. China said it would respond in kind. It had earlier threatened to levy new duties on 60bn-worth of American exports if America implemented tariffs on another $200bn-worth of Chinese products. See article.

    

3. Germany’s economy ministry in part blamed “uncertainties” in trade for a decline in manufacturing orders. Orders from within the euro zone and domestically fell by almost 3% between May and June. Those from outside the currency bloc dipped by 6%.

    

4. New York’s city council voted to stop issuing new licences for ride-hailing cars for a year while it reassesses the industry, and also to set a minimum wage for drivers. Although existing licensed drivers will still be allowed to operate, the ruling is a setback for Uber in its biggest market. See article.

    

5. Unfazed by American sanctions and boosted by higher oil prices, Rosneft’s quarterly net profit surged, to 228bn roubles ($3.7bn). After years of big acquisitions, the Russian oil producer, the world’s biggest listed oil company by output, said its buoyant earnings reflected improved efficiency.

    

6. Glencore’s headline profit for the first half of the year rose to $8.3bn, a record for the mining and commodities-trading firm. Its metals business benefited from rising commodity prices in the first half, particularly in battery-related metals such as nickel and cobalt. However, cobalt prices have plunged recently, as China has upped its exports of the metal.

    

7. Peak social media?

   Snap followed Facebook, Netflix and Twitter by reporting disappointing user-growth figures. Daily users of the Snapchat app actually fell by 2% from April to June compared with the previous three months. Snap got a vote of confidence, however, from Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, a prominent Saudi investor, who has amassed a 2.3% stake.

   amass:

   if you amass money, knowledge, information etc, you gradually collect a large amount of it
   积聚，积累，大量收集
   THESAURUS collect
   For 25 years, Darwin amassed evidence to support his theories.
   25年间，达尔文收集了大量证据来支持自己的理论。
   He amassed a fortune after the war.
   战后，他积累了大量财富。

   

8. Cisco expanded its business in cyber-security by agreeing to pay $2.4bn for Duo, which provides a two-factor authentication service. With companies increasingly concerned about hacking and identity theft, the market for technology that requires staff to enter additional security details when accessing corporate computer systems is expected to grow rapidly.

    

9. America’s Department of Justice filed an appeal against a judge’s decision to permit the merger of AT&T and Time Warner. The department argues that the judge ignored principles of “common sense” in his ruling.

    

10. The pound fell below $1.29 for the first time in almost a year, as worries mounted that Britain could leave the European Union next March without a trade deal. Britain’s trade secretary did little to allay those fears when he gave the odds of crashing out of the EU at 60-40. Sterling also hit its lowest level against the euro since last October, at €1.11.

     

11. Royal Bank of Scotland said it would pay its first dividend since its bail-out during the financial crisis. The government still owns a 62.4% stake in RBS. Recommencing payouts may widen the pool of potential investors as the government further reduces its stake.

    recommence:

    to begin something again after it has stopped
    重新开始

    

12. Indra Nooyi decided to retire as chief executive of PepsiCo after 12 years in the job. During her tenure Ms Nooyi steered the company away from its over-reliance on soft drinks and snacks towards healthier foods, juices and water. She saw off a subsequent campaign led by Nelson Peltz, an activist investor, to split the company in two. Her successor is Ramon Laguarta, a PepsiCo veteran.

    tenure:任期

    

13. Flat-packing all over the world

    IKEA opened its first outlet in India. The store, in Hyderabad, differs slightly from IKEA’s shops in other countries by offering a wider range of cheap goods, 1,000 of which will sell for less than 200 rupees ($2.90), as well as a 1,000-seat restaurant. Indians now, too, will get to know the pleasure of assembling a PAX wardrobe over a weekend.

    wardrobe:衣柜

    

14. America reimposed sanctions on Iran, three months after pulling out of an accord brokered in 2015 to roll back its nuclear-weapons programme. A European Union law aims to shield EU-based firms that deal with Iran from the sanctions. But Donald Trump tweeted that anyone doing business with Iran will not be doing business with America. Scores of international companies have said they will comply with the order. Tougher sanctions come into force in November that curb Iranian energy exports. See article. 

      

15. Saudi Arabia expelled Canada’s ambassador, froze trade with the country and will reportedly dump its Canadian investments. The kingdom’s ire was raised by a series of tweets from Canada’s foreign minister, in which she called for the release of Saudi human-rights activists. See article.

      

16. The government in Zimbabwe continued arresting and torturing members of the opposition, two weeks after disputed elections that saw President Emmerson Mnangagwa and his ruling Zanu-PF party hang onto power. The situation is chaotic. According to reports, the chief of the armed forces did not order the crackdown. A former army chief, Constantino Chiwenga, who is now the vice-president, is suspected of calling the shots. See article. 

      

17. Joseph Kabila said he would not run for a third term as president of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The constitution says he cannot, but that did not previously trouble him. His term should have ended in 2016. An election is scheduled for December. See article. 

      

18. Nigeria’s vice-president, Yemi Osinbajo, who is acting as president while Muhammadu Buhari is on holiday, fired the country’s spy chief after masked security men barricaded parliament. Dozens of lawmakers recently switched their loyalty from the ruling party to the opposition.

    barricade:

    to build a barricade to prevent someone or something from getting in
    设路障于；以障碍物阻塞

    

19. I’d start worrying

    The Republicans appeared to have clung on in a special election for a congressional seat in the suburbs of Columbus, Ohio. The Republican candidate’s margin of victory stood at just one percentage point in a district that the party won by 37 points in 2016. In another election that was too close to call, Kris Kobach, who spearheaded (unfounded) allegations of voter fraud at the election in 2016, had a tiny lead in the Republican primary for governor of Kansas. See article. 

    too close to call:

    势均力敌，胜负难分

    

20. U.S. primary election results from Tuesday show one veteran U.S. senator successfully turning back a challenger while another's race is too close to call. 
    美国星期二举行的国会中期选举的初选结果显示，资深参议员麦凯恩击败了他的挑战者，而另一场初选则难分胜负。

    

21. Chicago endured its bloodiest weekend of the year. At least 74 people were shot between Friday afternoon and early Monday, 12 of them fatally.

      

22. Presidential target

    In an apparent attempt to assassinate Venezuela’s president, Nicolás Maduro, two drones carrying explosives flew near him as he addressed the paramilitary National Guard. One blew up in mid-air. The other struck a building. The guardsmen panicked and fled. A group calling itself Soldiers in T-shirts claimed responsibility. At least seven people were arrested. Inflation in Venezuela is so high that prices double every 25 days. See article. 

    

23. The left-wing Workers’ Party in Brazil nominated Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, a former president, as its presidential candidate. He leads in the polls, but is in jail for corruption and will probably be disqualified. The second-most-popular candidate, Jair Bolsonaro, a right-wing former army captain, named a former general, Hamilton Mourão, as his running-mate. Last year Mr Mourão suggested that the army could intervene to solve Brazil’s political problems. See here and here. 

      

24. Iván Duque was sworn in as Colombia’s president, succeeding Juan Manuel Santos, who negotiated a peace deal ending a long-running war with the FARC guerrilla group. Mr Duque is a critic of the peace agreement. As one of his last acts Mr Santos gave 440,000 refugees from Venezuela the temporary right to stay in Colombia. See article. 

      

25. Little currency

    The threat of American sanctions in a row over the detention of an American pastor in Turkey sent the Turkish lira reeling. It hit record lows against the dollar, having lost a third of its value since the start of this year. A Turkish minister flew to Washington to try to resolve the dispute. Separately, America imposed new sanctions on Russia for the nerve-agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain. See article. 

    detention :拘留

    

26. Italy’s senate voted to overturn legislation that requires all children to be vaccinated against measles. Some in the ruling coalition believe anti-vaccine conspiracy theories. The measles virus is highly contagious.

    overturn:推翻，倾覆

    vaccinate :接种疫苗

    measle:麻疹

    conspiracy:阴谋

    contagious :感染性的，会蔓延的

On the road

Students in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, ended their protests demanding better road safety. The demonstrations began after a boy and a girl were killed by a speeding bus. The protests unsettled the government. Rubber bullets and tear gas were fired into the crowds and clashes erupted between the students and activists from the ruling party’s youth league. 

unsettle :使动摇，使不安定

The government of Australia promised more aid to farmers stricken by drought. The entire state of New South Wales, which produces a quarter of Australia’s agricultural output, was declared to be in drought after recording its driest January to July period since 1965.

An earthquake of magnitude 6.9 struck the Indonesian island of Lombok, killing hundreds of people. With thousands of buildings destroyed, more than 156,000 islanders were displaced.

 

In China police quashed a protest against collapsed peer-to-peer lending schemes before it could get going. The protesters had planned to converge on locations in Beijing, but the authorities were ready, quickly dispatching would-be demonstrators in buses to destinations unknown. Lending schemes occasionally collapse in heaps of fraud, leaving participants penniless and angry.

 quash :镇压

converge:使汇聚，聚集，靠拢

China decided not to allow cinemas to show Disney’s new Winnie the Pooh film, “Christopher Robin”. No reason was given. On Chinese social media Xi Jinping has been relentlessly (if gently) mocked for his resemblance to the portly bear. Jokers swap pictures of Pooh and his pals for images of Mr Xi with foreign leaders. Censors insist that it is not funny how a bear likes honey, no matter how much buzz, buzz, buzz it generates.

resemblance:相似，相似物

mock :愚弄，嘲弄