1. A large, featureless shed by the motorway between the Castilian towns of Burgos and Lerma is home to ASTI Mobile Robotics. Inside, on the main shop floor, a score of workers armed with iPads test driverless contraptions mounted on red and orange steel frames. The automatic guided vehicles (AGVs) they are designing, building and controlling with customised software already operate in factories and warehouses in 16 countries around the world, including some belonging to Fiat, Airbus and Nestlé. The robots deliver parts to production lines, bringing more flexibility and efficiency to the jobs that conveyor belts, forklifts and tractors used to do. 

   shed：小屋，棚屋；〔用作车间、停放大型车辆或存放机器等的〕工棚，厂房，库房

   shop floor：工作场所，车间

   contraption：奇妙的装置，精巧的设计

   conveyor：传送机

   forklift：铲车；堆高机；叉式升降机 

   tractor：拖拉机，牵引机

   

2. They are the brainchild of Veronica Pascual, a 39-year-old aeronautical engineer who took over her parents’ small conveyor-belt firm when it ran into trouble 15 years ago. At the time the customers were mainly confined to northern Spain, but now 70% of sales are abroad. She is confident that turnover this year will rise to €35m ($41m), from €25m in 2017, and will reach €100m by 2020. Her staff has expanded more than tenfold, to 210, of whom 25 are working at an innovation centre in Madrid. One hundred new staff joined last year alone. The business is highly profitable, says Ms Pascual, and continuously reinvests those profits in growth. “We’re thinking always of where we want to be in five years,” she explains.

   brainchild：脑力劳动的产物，创作品

   aeronautical：航空的，航空学的

   turnover：营业额

   

3. As a research-intensive high-tech company with global ambitions, growing fast and run by a woman, ASTI is everything that Spanish business is traditionally not. Before the financial crisis Spain had a clutch of multinationals, most of them in Madrid in regulated sectors such as banking, telecoms and infrastructure (the big exception was and is Inditex, a fast-fashion giant based in Galicia). Catalonia and the Basque country had medium-sized industrial firms, most of them family-owned. Below that came hundreds of thousands of small family businesses. 

   research-intensive：研究密集

   

4. The crisis brought wrenching change. Between 2008 and 2013 Spain lost 9% of its GDP in real terms, private consumption fell by 14% and unemployment surged. The subsequent recovery owed much to Mr Rajoy’s reforms. The previously rigid labour market became more flexible. Wage bargaining was devolved to firm level, which helped make companies more competitive. Redundancy pay was cut from 45 days per year worked to a still-generous 33 days, making lay-offs more bearable for companies. 

   wrenching：痛苦的

   subsequent：后来的

   rigid：死板的

   devolve to：转移，移交

   Redundancy pay：裁员补贴遣散费

   

5. Helped by the promise of a €100bn loan from the EU (of which only €40bn was used), the government also cleaned up the financial system, merging or shutting down scores of broken cajas (savings banks) which had made reckless property loans. The non-performing loan ratio is still slightly above the EU average but has declined steadily, and credit is flowing again. The collapse of Banco Popular in 2017 (and its absorption by Santander, a bigger rival) was a delayed effect of the crisis, not a sign of new problems ahead. The government also paid off the arrears that regional governments had run up with their suppliers, which added up to 5% of GDP. That saved many small businesses. 

   non-performing loan ratio：不良率

   arrear：欠款，逾期债款