​       Taking Tesla Private

​       The following email was sent to Tesla employees today:

1. Earlier today, I announced that I’m considering taking Tesla private at a price of $420/share. I wanted to let you know my rationale for this, and why I think this is the best path forward.

   rationale：

   the reasons for a decision, belief etc
   〔决定、信念等的〕理由，依据
   [+ behind/for/of]
   The rationale behind the changes is not at all evident.
   根本看不出这些变革依据何在。
   The rationale for using this teaching method is to encourage student confidence.
   采用这种教学方法的理由是要激发学生的自信心。

   

2. First, a final decision has not yet been made, but the reason for doing this is all about creating the environment for Tesla to operate best. As a public company, we are subject to wild swings in our stock price that can be a major distraction for everyone working at Tesla, all of whom are shareholders. Being public also subjects us to the quarterly earnings cycle that puts enormous pressure on Tesla to make decisions that may be right for a given quarter, but not necessarily right for the long-term. Finally, as the most shorted stock in the history of the stock market, being public means that there are large numbers of people who have the incentive to attack the company.

   short ：做空

   

3. I fundamentally believe that we are at our best when everyone is focused on executing, when we can remain focused on our long-term mission, and when there are not perverse incentives for people to try to harm what we’re all trying to achieve.

   perverse：不正当的， 违反常情的

   

4. This is especially true for a company like Tesla that has a long-term, forward-looking mission. SpaceX is a perfect example: it is far more operationally efficient, and that is largely due to the fact that it is privately held. This is not to say that it will make sense for Tesla to be private over the long-term. In the future, once Tesla enters a phase of slower, more predictable growth, it will likely make sense to return to the public markets.

   Here’s what I envision being private would mean for all shareholders, including all of our employees.

   envision：想象，预想

   

5. First, I would like to structure this so that all shareholders have a choice. Either they can stay investors in a private Tesla or they can be bought out at $420 per share, which is a 20% premium over the stock price following our Q2 earnings call (which had already increased by 16%). My hope is for all shareholders to remain, but if they prefer to be bought out, then this would enable that to happen at a nice premium.

   Second, my intention is for all Tesla employees to remain shareholders of the company, just as is the case at SpaceX. If we were to go private, employees would still be able to periodically sell their shares and exercise their options. This would enable you to still share in the growing value of the company that you have all worked so hard to build over time.

   Third, the intention is not to merge SpaceX and Tesla. They would continue to have separate ownership and governance structures. However, the structure envisioned for Tesla is similar in many ways to the SpaceX structure: external shareholders and employee shareholders have an opportunity to sell or buy approximately every six months.

   Finally, this has nothing to do with accumulating control for myself. I own about 20% of the company now, and I don’t envision that being substantially different after any deal is completed.

   Basically, I’m trying to accomplish an outcome where Tesla can operate at its best, free from as much distraction and short-term thinking as possible, and where there is as little change for all of our investors, including all of our employees, as possible.

   This proposal to go private would ultimately be finalized through a vote of our shareholders. If the process ends the way I expect it will, a private Tesla would ultimately be an enormous opportunity for all of us. Either way, the future is very bright and we’ll keep fighting to achieve our mission.

   

   Thanks,

   Elon

   

   Move over FAANG, here comes MAGA

   Throwing all big tech companies into one basket has always been lazy

6. IN THE end, it wasn’t enough, at least for now. On July 31st Apple announced results for its third quarter that handily beat analysts’ expectations. Revenues rose by 17% compared with the same period in 2017, and profits were 32% higher. The firm’s shares jumped by nearly 4% in after-hours trading. But Apple did not, by the time The Economist went to press, quite manage to become the world’s first widely held listed company with a market capitalisation of $1trn (see chart).

   The near miss is a fitting coda to the latest round of results in techland. Momentum in this most upwardly mobile of industries is unbroken; sales and profits are still rising. But the laws of economic gravity have not been repealed. In fact, the era of the FAANGs— as Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google’s parent, Alphabet, are collectively known—may be coming to an end, giving way to a period in which two groups of tech firms follow different trajectories.

   coda:

   a separate piece of writing at the end of a work of literature or a speech

   〔文学作品或演说的〕结尾，尾声

   near miss:

   something that falls just short of success

   The near miss is a fitting coda to the latest round of results in techland.

   差一点就越过万亿美元门槛是对科技领域最新一轮结果的一个恰当的总结。

   trajectory:

   formal the events that happen during a period of time, which often lead to a particular aim or result
   〔事物的〕发展轨迹
   The decision was certain to affect the trajectory of French politics for some time to come.
   这一决定在未来的一段时间里必将影响法国的政治轨迹

   

7. This year the FAANGs and a few other high-flying tech firms provided more than half the returns in the S&P 500 share index. Netflix’s share price, for instance, more than doubled between January and July. Twitter’s almost did so. Facebook’s market value quickly recovered from a low in March, after revelations that its data on 87m users had leaked to a British political-campaign firm.

   With their shares priced for near-perfect results, the firms were vulnerable to bad news. This duly arrived, starting with Netflix, a video-streaming service, which said in mid-July that it had added fewer subscribers than expected. A few days later Facebook gave downbeat guidance about future growth and margins. Then Twitter, a microblogging site, announced that its number of active users had declined. All three firms’ share prices plunged by about a fifth.

   duly：按时地，适当地

   

8. News of the wipeout overshadowed the fact that the other tech titans continue to do well, as also evidenced in July. Microsoft, the world’s biggest software firm, reached 100bn in annual revenue for the first time. Alphabet shrugged off the $5bn fine recently imposed on it by European trustbusters and posted strong results. Amazon announced a record quarterly profit.

   wipeout：被浪打翻，全部覆灭

   overshadow:

   to make someone or something else seem less important
   使〔别的人或事〕显得较不重要，使相形见绌[黯然失色]
   Her interest in politics began to overshadow her desire to be a poet.
   她对政治的兴趣开始盖过了想当诗人的愿望。
   The achievement of the men’s team was overshadowed by the continuing success of the women’s team.
   男子组的成绩在女子组的连连胜利面前相形见绌。

   shrug off：耸肩表示不太在意

   

9. These diverging results point to a broader development. Throwing all the FAANGs and other big tech firms into one basket has always been lazy. In the future they will probably be seen as two different groups: a consumer-oriented one, which could, somewhat awkwardly, be called “FATWIN” (Facebook, Twitter and Netflix) and a more business-to-business group, which some already dub “MAGA” (Microsoft, Amazon, Google and Apple).

   dub :to give something or someone a name that describes them in some way

   

10. The first group shows signs of reaching maturity. It is not that the firms will now stagnate. Facebook’s revenues grew by 42%; Twitter’s were up by 24%. But signs abound that social media’s best days are over. Advertising revenues are not infinite. Users are exhibiting social-media fatigue. And regulators will continue to prod firms to police their platforms (one of the reasons for Facebook’s shrinking margins is that it has been hiring thousands of moderators to vet users’ posts). The firm’s earnings call should be seen as a “big reset of investor expectations”, says Mark Mahaney of RBC Capital Markets, a bank.

    stagnate:

    to stop developing or making progress

    Growth is expected to stagnate next year.
    预计明年增长会停滞。
    His career had stagnated.
    他的事业停滞不前了。

    abound:

    abound with/in sth phr v
    if a place, situation etc abounds with things of a particular type, it contains a very large number of them
    富于，盛产
    The forests abound with deer, birds, and squirrels.
    森林里有许许多多的鹿、鸟和松鼠。

    fatigue : very great tiredness

    prod:

    to make someone do something by persuading or reminding them that it is necessary, especially when they are lazy or unwilling
    激励；促使，督促
    prod sb into (doing) sth
    It had prodded Ben into doing something about it.
    那件事促使本要做点什么。
    The strike may prod the government into action.
    那场罢工可能会促使政府采取行动。

    vet:

    to check a report, speech etc care-fully to make sure it is acceptable
    检查，审查〔报告、演讲等〕
    The author vets every script for the new TV series.
    这部新电视连续剧的每一个剧本，作者都要仔细过目。

    

11. The second group benefits from the fact that companies continue to embrace cloud computing, particularly as it starts to encompass artificial-intelligence services. Amazon’s record profits were generated by its cloud-computing arm, as were Microsoft’s expanding revenues. Google, too, is making more money from the cloud, although it still depends on advertising as its main engine. As for Apple, being mainly a hardware-maker, it stands apart. Although it did not ship as many iPhones as expected, it sold them at a higher average price. Its services business, which includes the iTunes music store and the iCloud bundle of offerings, had its best quarter ever, posting revenues of nearly $10bn.

    encompass :

    to include a wide range of ideas, subjects, etc
    包含，包括
    The study encompasses the social, political, and economic aspects of the situation.
    这项研究涵盖了这一局势的社会、政治和经济三方面。

    ship：

    technical to make a piece of computer equipment or software available for people to buy
    推出〔计算机商品〕；（使）上市
    They’re now shipping their long-awaited new anti-virus software.
    他们现正推出大家期待已久的新杀毒软件。
    Both products are due to ship at the beginning of June.
    这两种产品都定于六月初上市。

    

12. Overall, tech firms will continue to thrive, says Brian Wieser of Pivotal Research. Yet all bets will be off should America’s trade war with China continue to get hotter. Apple is most vulnerable. Not only are most of its devices made in China, but the country is its second-largest market. If Apple gets hit by tariffs, another company is likely to get to $1trn first. But right now, that prize seems within its reach.

    Note (August 2nd, 2018): Apple breached the $1trn mark on August 2nd, after we went to press.