Obituary: John McCain（二）

The navy pilot, senator and presidential candidate, died on August 25th, aged 81

1. Discipline was the hard part. He had always struggled with it, whether at Annapolis, where his cheeky behaviour led to graduation fifth from the bottom of his class, or in flight training, where he drank, chased tail and had a good time generally. But his worst failing was his temper, his sheer rapid-fire, finger-jabbing rage against the jerks who frustrated him. He excused it as impatience, especially at the crawling way Congress worked and the failure of parties to work across the aisle. (Democrats made great partners: he teamed up with Russ Feingold for his greatest legislative achievement, campaign-finance reform, with Joe Lieberman on cap-and-trade bills, with Ted Kennedy on immigration reform.) Or he called his temper passion, especially for curbing pork-barrel spending—and if it ever went away, he was ready for the old soldier’s home.

   aisle:

   a long passage between rows of seats in a church, plane, theatre etc, or between rows of shelves in a sho

   通道，过道

   Would you like a window seat or an aisle seat (= seat next to the aisle ) ?

   您想要靠窗的座位还是靠过道的座位？

2. Truth and principles. Those were his watchwords, though political life made them tricky. On his national campaign bus, the Straight Talk Express, he chatted candidly to the press, but in the vain hope that they would lay off him. In Congress he took dogged stands against Big Tobacco, global warming and over-regulation, but swerved on health-care reform and balanced budgets, as well as immigration in the end. This, and his openness to Democrats, earned him a maverick reputation. He preferred to think he was an honest free agent, still conservative most of the time, but not in thrall to the hard-right Republican base. That principle was dented whenever he ran for higher office—most famously when, in 2008, he made a naked appeal to the base by picking the ludicrously unqualified Sarah Palin as his running-mate.

   watchword:

   a word or phrase that expresses an attitude or belief

   口号；标语；格言

   Environmental quality will be the watchword for the 21st century.

   环境质量将是21世纪的口号。

   candid:

   elling the truth, even when the truth may be unpleasant or embarrassing

   坦诚的，率直的，直言不讳的

   SYN frank 

   It struck me as an unusually candid confession for a politician.

   我觉得这对一个政治家来说是非常坦率的告白了。

   [+ about]

   She was quite candid about the difficulties the government is having.

   她对政府面临的困难直言不讳。

   [+ with]

   He was remarkably candid with me.

   他对我非常坦率。

   lay off: measure off

   dogged:

   dogged behaviour shows that you are very determined to continue doing something

   坚持不懈的，顽强的，不屈不挠的

   a dogged determination to succeed

   不屈不挠的成功决心

   swerve:

   to change from an idea, course of action, purpose etc

   改变；背离〔主意、做法、目的等〕

   [+ from]

   He would never swerve from the truth.

   他绝不会违背真理。

   thrall:

   in sb’s/sth’s thrall

   literary controlled or strongly influenced by someone or something

   (also 又作in thrall to sb/sth)

   在某人/某事的奴役[束缚，控制]之下

   We have a congress that is in thrall to special interest groups.

   我们的国会受制于一些特殊利益集团。

   dent:

   to damage or harm something

   损害，伤害

   The scandal has dented his reputation.

   这桩丑闻损害了他的名誉。

3. The need for war

   His greatest consistency lay in urging wars abroad, wherever winnable, and for him both Afghanistan and Iraq fell under that head. America had a duty to spread freedom and democracy, by force of arms if necessary. He longed to go into Syria to support the rebels, to send heavy weapons to Ukraine and to “bomb, bomb, bomb” Iran, as he sang once. When it came to wars, he suspended his usual backing for tax cuts and balanced budgets. Even Vietnam, he thought, should have been winnable, if those idiot civilian commanders had bombed enough.

   consistency:

   the quality of always being the same, doing things in the same way, having the same standards etc – used to show approval

4. That said, the gung-ho approach of Donald Trump left him cold. They might share a party, but he had nothing to do with him and the half-baked nationalism he promoted. The brain-cancer diagnosis in July 2017 freed his tongue, and tested his mettle, in all the ways he relished. The talk was never straighter, the stance never more upright, than when he called on his fellow-Republicans not just to endure, but to resist.

   gung-ho:

   very eager to do something dangerous or violent

   非常急切的，莽撞的，冒险的

   The sporting opportunities here should suit the most gung-ho of tourists.

   这里的体育活动应该能满足那些极喜欢冒险的游客的口味。

   relish:

   to enjoy an experience or the thought of something that is going to happen

   喜爱；享受

   mettle:

   courage and determination to do something even when it is very difficult

   勇气，奋斗精神

   test/show/prove your mettle

   a crisis which will test the minister’s mettle

   将要考验该部长意志的一场危机