Global unease, from commerce to currencies, rattles raw materials

Are the worst fears now priced in?

1. THEY make an intriguing posse: about 160 “scouts” in jeans and muddy boots, jumping out of cars with ropes in hand, plunging deep into corn (maize) and soyabean fields across the American Midwest. They are not just farmers. They include commodity traders and hedge-fund managers. Their quest: to predict this year’s harvest by using ropes as a measure and counting, to the last ear of corn and soyabean pod, the yield in a given area. “We have a really beautiful crop. I think this is going to be a record,” says Ted Seifried, a market strategist at Zaner Group, a commodities brokerage in Chicago, during a stop in Nebraska on August 21st. The mud on his boots is a reassuring sign of ample moisture in the soil.

   intrigue:

   if something intrigues you, it interests you a lot because it seems strange or mysterious

   〔因奇特或神秘而〕激起…的兴趣，引起…的好奇心；迷住

2. But when he gets back into the car with others on the Pro Farmer Midwest Crop Tour, the talk turns to darker subjects, such as trade tensions, collapsing currencies and what he calls the start of an “economic cold war” between America and China. “While we’re driving the 15-25 miles from field to field, we certainly have a lot to talk about. By and large the American producer thinks the fight with China is just. But it’s very much affecting the pocketbook.”

   by and large:大体上，总的来说

   just:公正的，合理的

3. From the midwestern farm belt to the commodity markets of Chicago, New York, London and Shanghai, this is a tricky time to be producing and trading commodities. Americans may relish their stockmarkets soaring (see article). But a rising dollar, higher American interest rates, sliding emerging-market currencies and fears of a tariff-induced blow to exports to China have taken a toll on commodity prices in recent months (see chart 1).

   farm belt:农业区

   relish:

   to enjoy an experience or the thought of something that is going to happen

   喜爱；享受

   relish the prospect/thought/idea

   I don’t relish the thought of you walking home alone.

   我可不想让你一个人走回家。

   relish the chance/opportunity

   He relishes the chance to play Hamlet.

   他很高兴能有机会扮演哈姆雷特。

4. In the background lurks climate change, fears of which have grown with the heat and drought battering Europe’s wheat crop this summer. European grain prices have surged as a result. But those of many other commodities are sagging. On August 22nd a pound of arabica coffee fell below $1, less than the cost of a takeaway brew and the lowest in 12 years. Raw sugar was also at ten-year lows. Both have been hit by oversupply in Brazil, as well as a slide in the value of the real, the Brazilian currency, which makes it more compelling to sell crops, priced in dollars, rather than store them.

   lurk:

   if something such as danger, a feeling etc lurks somewhere, it exists, but you may not see it or know about it

   〔危险、情感等〕暗藏，潜藏

   a dark formless danger, lurking in the shadows

   一种潜藏在阴影里的无形危险

   takeaway brew :外卖啤酒

5. The previous week, prices of copper fell into bear-market territory, down by more than 20% since June, on fears that protectionism would dampen global growth, especially in China, whose efforts to crack down on financial leverage are another drag on expansion. Oil prices have dipped for seven straight weeks, also because of concerns about lacklustre demand in emerging markets and because a strong dollar makes it dearer for those with weak currencies to buy crude. Gold has developed a strange habit of sliding in sync with the Chinese yuan.

   straight:连续的

   lacklustre:

   not exciting, impressive etc

   毫无生气的；乏味的

   SYN dull

   The team gave rather a lacklustre performance.

   该队的表现毫无生气。

   Gold has developed a strange habit of sliding in sync with the Chinese yuan.

   黄金已经形成了一种与人民币同步下滑的奇怪习惯。

6. American corn and soyabean prices, meanwhile, continue a long streak of weakness caused mainly by harvests that get more bountiful by the year. The Department of Agriculture is forecasting a record corn yield this year and the biggest harvest of soyabeans ever, something the crop tour is likely to validate, Mr Seifried says. But that is lousy timing, given that China, which was America’s biggest buyer of soyabeans, raised retaliatory tariffs on the crop in July. Farmers hope to sell more in Europe, where soyameal for animal feed is in high demand because of the high cost of wheat. But the slide in the real also makes Brazilian soyabeans more competitive.

7. Optimism flickers from time to time. Many commodities rallied in the run-up to the latest trade talks between American and Chinese officials, which were due to end after The Economist went to press. The dollar fell, bolstering some commodities, after President Donald Trump said in an interview with Reuters on August 20th that he was “not thrilled” with the Federal Reserve’s policy of raising American interest rates. Progress in talks on the North American Free-Trade Agreement would also be good news (see article).

   rally:

   to become stronger again after a period of weakness or defeat

   复原；恢复；重新振作

   RELTD recover 

   After a shaky start, he rallied and won the title in style.

   虽然开局不顺，但他振作精神，最后漂亮地赢得了冠军。

   The Tokyo stock market rallied later in the day.

   当天晚些时候东京股市止跌回升。

8. But BHP, the world’s biggest miner, issued a blunt assessment of the longer-term dangers to its products during its otherwise promising year-end results on August 21st. It said protectionism was “exceedingly unhelpful” for broad-based global growth, adding that Sino-American trade tensions could weaken both countries’ GDP growth by a quarter to three-quarters of a percentage point, absent counter-measures. Both America and China imposed another tranche of tariffs, on a further $16bn-worth of each other’s goods, on August 23rd.

   tranche:

   part of a larger sum of money or group of shares

   〔款额或股票的〕一部分，一份

   The second tranche of the loan would be repaid over three years.

   贷款的第二期将于三年内还清。

9. Analysts point to two main ways in which these tensions hurt commodity prices. The first is because of the rising importance of emerging markets to demand. In a report in June, the World Bank calculated that almost all the growth in the past 20 years in global metal consumption, two-thirds of the increase in energy demand and two-fifths of the rise in food consumption came from seven countries: Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Russia and Turkey. This group now exceeds the Group of Seven industrial nations in consumption of coal and all base and precious metals, as well as of rice, wheat and soyabeans. Commodity prices are therefore far more sensitive to these countries’ fortunes than they used to be. Hence their walloping last week when the plunging Turkish lira gave a shock to other fragile currencies.

10. The second is speculation. Ole Hansen, head of commodities strategy at Saxo Bank, says that fears of a trade war have clobbered prices of the most globally traded commodities, notably copper, as short positions by speculators have surged (see chart 2). China accounts for half the world’s demand for copper, the same share as its consumption of steel. Yet steel prices have fared much better because the most liquid steel contract is in China, which is much more affected by domestic supply and demand factors than big global bets. A steel-futures contract in Shanghai touched a seven-year high on August 22nd.

    short position:空头头寸

    fare:

    fare well/badly/better etc

    to be successful, unsuccessful etc

    经营，进展地成功/失败/更成功等

    Although Chicago has fared better than some cities, unemployment remains a problem.

    虽说芝加哥比其他一些城市情况好些，但失业仍是个问题。

    He wondered how Ed had fared in the interview.

    他想知道埃德面试情况如何。

11. As ever, demand from China remains the biggest swing factor for commodities. BHP reckons China will use fiscal and monetary expansion to help offset the impact to its exports from the trade conflict, which could benefit commodities. But even if the worst is now priced in, plenty of volatility lies ahead. As Mr Seifried quips from the cornfields of Nebraska, “predicting the future is a son of a bitch”.

    price in:被市场消化,充分反映了,股价陆续反映

    quip:

    to say something clever and amusing

    说俏皮话，说妙语

    ‘Giving up smoking is easy,’ he quipped. ‘I’ve done it hundreds of times.''

    “戒烟很容易啊，”他风趣地说，“我已经戒过几百次了。”