Obituary: John McCain

The navy pilot, senator and presidential candidate, died on August 25th, aged 81

1. EVERY inch of John McCain’s body shouted endurance. The brisk, slightly swinging walk, the stiffly held arms, the tight shoulders and clenched smile, all carried the mark of Vietnam like one scar. His arms were stiff because they had been broken when he fell out of the sky in his bomber, then yanked up by ropes in prison day after day. Released from the “Hanoi Hilton”, after five and a half years of sporadic torture and solitary confinement, he could no longer raise them to comb his hair. His hair itself had turned white, though he was only in his 30s. He walked with something like a strut because his damaged knees had hardly any cartilage left in them. Not that this stopped him hiking for miles through the Grand Canyon and the desert hills of Arizona, the stunningly beautiful piece of America that he represented in Congress for more than 30 years. The swell of his chest was pride in what he felt he had achieved there.

   sporadic:

   happening fairly often, but not regularly

   不时发生的，零星的

   There has been sporadic violence downtown.

   市中心时有暴力事件发生。

   solitary confinement:单独监禁

   cartilage:

   a strong substance that can bend, which is around the joints in your body and in your outer ear

   软骨（组织）

2. At times, though, his shoulders hunched and he would clasp his arms round his chest, as if against a jailer’s blows. It happened when he found himself embroiled, and caught out, in something distasteful: doing too much for lobbyists from the gambling industry (he loved to toss $100 chips round a craps table, lucky feather and penny stowed in his pocket), accepting favours and funds from Charles Keating of the savings-and-loan scandal, trading low blows with rivals in his runs for the Republican nomination in 2000 and for the presidency in 2008—and then failing at both. Withstanding prison beatings was hard, but for a greater cause. The unaccustomed pain of political failure had no obvious upside, therefore hurt more.

   hunch:

   [I always + adv/prep] to bend down and forwards so that your back forms a curve

   弓身，弓背

   [+ over]

   He had to hunch over the steering wheel to see anything.

   他不伏在方向盘上就什么都看不见。

   embroil:

   to involve someone or something in a difficult situation

   使卷入，使陷入〔困境〕

   catch out:发觉...有错误

   withstand:

   to be strong enough to remain unharmed by something such as great heat, cold, pressure etc

   耐受，承受〔酷热、严寒、高压等〕

   SYN resist,stand up to 

   This fabric can withstand steam and high temperatures.

   这种织物耐蒸汽和高温。

   unaccustomed:

   unaccustomed to (doing) sth

   not used to something

   对(做)某事不习惯的

   a country boy, unaccustomed to city ways

   一个不习惯城市生活方式的乡下男孩

3. He did not want Vietnam to define his career, but inevitably it did. (Neither did he want to be called a hero, but inevitably he was.) Vietnam brought the best moment of his life, when he refused early release from prison and gained, for the first time in his self-indulgent life up till then, a serious sense of a shared purpose larger than himself. And Vietnam brought the worst moment, when he signed a forced confession admitting that he was a “black criminal”. He never quite got over the disgrace of that.

4. Also looming over him were the straight-backed shadows of his grandfather and father, both admirals, both steeped in duty, honour, country. When he felt proud of himself, it was also on their behalf. When he was ashamed it was because he had also let them down. By 1981, when he knew he would never make full admiral and had wrecked his first marriage with affairs, old political ambitions resurfaced, as another sort of national service into which he could plunge himself.

   loom over:笼罩

   steep:

   be steeped in history/tradition/politics etc

   to have a lot of a particular quality

   有丰富的历史/传统/政治等

   a town steeped in history 历史悠久的小城

   plunge:

   take the plunge

   to decide to do something important or risky, especially after thinking about it for a long time

   〔尤指经过长时间思考之后〕决定奋力一搏，决定冒险一试

   We took the plunge and set up our own business.

   我们毅然决定自己创业。

