​       Business this week

1. Stockmarkets wobbled amid worries about Turkey’s economic turmoil. After taking a battering in foreign-exchange markets the Turkish lira stabilised as the government brought in measures to stop short-selling of the currency and trumpeted a pledge of investment from Qatar. The episode spooked investors in other emerging markets. The Indian rupee hit a new low against the dollar. The Russian rouble and South African rand also had a stormy time. See article.

   wobble:

   1)to move unsteadily from side to side, or make something do this

   2)to be unsure whether to do something 

   SYN waver 
   The President appeared to wobble over sending the troops in.
   总统在派兵问题上显得犹豫不决

   battering:

   when someone or something is severely damaged, defeated, criticized etc 

   Her self-confidence had *taken a battering* . 

   她的自信大大受挫。

   trumpet:

   to tell everyone about something that you are proud of, especially in an annoying way 

   They are proudly trumpeting the fact that they are creating more jobs. 

   他们得意地宣扬他们是在创造更多的工作岗位。 

   spook:

   to frighten someone 

   I’m not easily spooked. 

   我不是容易受惊吓的人。

   

2. A jury in California awarded $289m to a schools ground-keeper with cancer after finding that weedkiller he used had not adequately described the risks to human health. The weedkiller contained glyphosate and was made by Monsanto, a chemicals company that was recently taken over by Bayer. The German company’s share price plunged after the jury’s decision. See article.

   glyphosate :草甘膦

   

3. He has the credentials

   Uber appointed a new chief security officer, nine months after it admitted that hackers had obtained the names of 57m passengers and drivers. Matt Olsen is a former general counsel of America’s National Security Agency. The firm also published its earnings for the second quarter. With gross bookings for its cars up by 41% compared with the same quarter last year, net revenue, after paying its drivers and other costs, surged to $2.8bn. Uber made another net loss, however.

   

4. Home Depot published its quarterly earnings. Seen as a bellwether for the American economy, the home-improvement retailer reported a big rise in net profit, to $3.5bn, and delivered an upbeat forecast.

   bellwether :

   Middle English,leading sheep of a flock,leader

   

5. House of Fraser, a British department-store chain, found a buyer just hours after going into administration. Sports Direct bought all the company’s 59 premises for £90m ($115m), including the stores that had been marked for closure. Mike Ashley, Sports Direct’s boss, said he wanted to turn the chain into the “Harrods of the high street”.

   going into administration :被接管

   premises :经营场所

   

6. The euro zone’s economy grew by 2.2% in the second quarter compared with the same period last year. Although that allayed fears that a trade row with America would damage the region, it was the euro zone’s slowest rate of growth in over a year.

   allay:

   allay (sb’s) fear/concern/suspicion etc
   to make someone feel less afraid, worried etc

   The president made a statement to allay public anxiety.
   总统发表了一项声明以缓解公众的忧虑。

   zero-hours contract:

   A zero-hour contract is a type of contract between an employer and a worker, where the employer is not obliged to provide any minimum working hours, while the worker is not obliged to accept any work offered.The employee may sign an agreement to be available for work as and when required, so that no particular number of hours or times of work are specified.Depending on jurisdiction and conditions of employment, a zero-hour contract may differ from casual work. They are often used in agriculture, hotels and catering, education, and healthcare sectors. They are used to enable on call scheduling. This term is used to refer to on-call shift scheduling practices, even though it is just a contract which enables it.
   While the term 'zero-hour contract' is primarily used in the United Kingdom, where around 3% of the workforce are on zero-hour contracts, casual and part-time workers are employed under similar terms in many countries.

   

7. Britain’s inflation rate increased to 2.5% in the year to July, the first time it had quickened since November 2017. The biggest jumps in prices were to transport-related costs. Separate employment data showed that 300,000 more people were in work in the second quarter than a year earlier. The unemployment rate, at 4%, is at its lowest level since 1975. With the labour market so buoyant, zero-hours contracts fell by 12%.

   

8. New Zealand’s Parliament passed a law banning most foreign non-residents from buying existing homes. The measure targets mostly Chinese investors who have been speculating in property, and who are blamed for a housing crunch that has seen prices skyrocket in places like Auckland. Australians are exempted; other foreigners can still make limited purchases of new developments.

   crunch :

   a difficult situation caused by a lack of something, especially money or time 

   cash/budget/financial etc crunch 

   Cost cutting had enabled the organization to survive a previous cash crunch. 

   削减成本使得该机构渡过了早前资金短缺的难关。 

   

9. Curiouser and curiouser

   Elon Musk put more flesh on his announcement that he intends to take Tesla private. He explained how he arrived at the buy-out price of $420 a share, and that the funding he had “secured” would come from Saudi Arabia’s sovereign-wealth fund, which, he said, has talked to him about taking Tesla private. Mr Musk is still not off the hook about whether he followed the proper rules for disclosing his plans: the Securities and Exchange Commission has reportedly subpoenaed Tesla’s directors. See article.

   put flesh on sth :

   to give more details about something to make it clear, more interesting etc 

   I’ll try to put some flesh on the plan Margaret has outlined. 

   我来具体说说玛格丽特刚才概述的这个计划。 

   off the hook:

   摆脱困境，脱身

   subpoena:

   to order someone to come to a court of law and be a witness 

   

10. Nio, a Chinese electric-carmaker, filed an IPO to list its American depositary shares on the New York Stock Exchange. Backed by Tencent, a big technology investment company, Nio is one of several startups in China with ambitions to compete with Tesla.

    

11. Meanwhile, Tencent reported a drop in quarterly net profit, a rare occurrence among China’s tech giants. The company’s gaming business has struggled to grow. That task has been made harder by Chinese regulators objecting to new titles. This week sales of Tencent’s newest game, “Monster Hunter: World”, were halted because regulators had received “complaints”.

    

    Politics this week

12. A highway bridge collapsed in Genoa, Italy, during a rainstorm, killing at least 38 people. The reasons for the collapse are under investigation. Italy’s populist government vowed to spend more on infrastructure—something some of its members had previously dismissed as unnecessary. See article.

    dismiss:

    to refuse to consider someone’s idea, opinion etc, because you think it is not serious, true, or important 

    The government has dismissed criticisms that the country’s health policy is a mess.
    有人认为国家医疗政策一塌糊涂，政府对这种批评持否认态度。
    It’s an idea that shouldn’t be dismissed out of hand (= dismissed immediately and completely ) .
    这个想法不该马上被全盘否定。
    dismiss sth as sth
    He just laughed and dismissed my proposal as unrealistic.
    他只是笑了笑，认为我的建议不切实际，拒绝考虑。

    

13. America continued to demand that Turkey release a pastor, Andrew Brunson, who is being held on dubious terrorism charges. Donald Trump said American sanctions would tighten until Mr Brunson is freed. Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, retaliated by raising tariffs on American goods and vowing to boycott Apple. Turkish smartphones will do, he said. See article.

    Andrew Brunson:

    Andrew Craig Brunson (born January 3, 1968) is an American pastor in Turkey, arrested in October 2016 during the purges occurring after the aftermath of the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt, which involved imprisoning tens of thousands of Turkish military personnel, civil servants, educators, academics, dissidents, and journalists. Brunson is an evangelical pastor of the Izmir Resurrection Church, a small Protestant church with about 25 congregants. T-Online describes the church as having been held in a room in a tenement.

    On July 26, 2018, US Vice President Pence called on Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan to release Brunson or face significant sanctions. On August 1, 2018, the U.S. Department of Treasury imposed sanctions on two top Turkish government officials who were involved in the detention of Brunson, Turkish Justice Minister Abdulhamit Gül and Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu.

    Brunson who was applying for Turkish permanent residency, having lived there 23 years, was imprisoned on October 7, 2016, accused of being a member of the Gülen movement, which the Turkish government considers to be a terrorist organization. The charges were later amended to include spying and attempting to overthrow the government. Brunson shared a small cell with 17 Turkish prisoners also allegedly in some way affiliated with the Gülen movement.

    

14. Protesters in Moscow denounced the imprisonment of a group of teenagers belonging to a political discussion group called “New Greatness”. The teenagers were sentenced to up to two years for extremism.

    

15. The European Commission gave Poland one month to change its new laws that give the government more influence over the appointment of judges. The commission says they violate EU rules on the independence of the judiciary. If Poland fails to act, the commission may turn to the European Court of Justice.

    

16. Serbia and Kosovo said they might negotiate border changes to move ethnically Albanian regions into Kosovo and ethnically Serbian ones into Serbia. Most European countries have abhorred the idea of moving borders for ethnic reasons since the second world war. A deal could help Serbia accept the independence of Kosovo, which used to be one of its provinces.

    abhor :

    to hate a kind of behaviour or way of thinking, especially because you think it is morally wrong 

    I abhor discrimination of any kind.

    我厌恶任何一种歧视。 

    

17. An unwelcome return

    An outbreak of Ebola in the north-east of the Democratic Republic of Congo claimed more lives, bringing the death toll to at least 41. The director-general of the World Health Organisation appealed for an end to fighting in the region, which has hindered aid workers. It is the second outbreak of the disease in the country this year. The first was declared to be over in July.

    claim:

    if a war, accident etc claims lives, people die because of it – used especially in news reports 

    The earthquake has so far claimed over 3,000 lives. 

    到目前为止这场地震已经夺去了3,000多人的生命。 

