Crumbling infrastructure is a worldwide problem

1. THE first bridges were likely to have been built by early man shoving a fallen tree across a stream. Since then, construction techniques have come on a bit—from wood to stone, wrought iron and then steel. In the 20th century, reinforced concrete appeared. Concrete is an immensely strong material, especially when coupled with steel. But the sudden collapse of the Morandi bridge in Genoa this week (pictured), with a tragic loss of life, adds to the concern of civil engineers that many bridges around the world which use reinforced concrete are deteriorating faster than was expected.

   crumble:

   [I] if something, especially something made of stone or rock, is crumbling, small pieces are breaking off it
   (also 又作crumble away)
   碎裂，崩裂，坍塌
   THESAURUS break
   The old stonework was crumbling away. 古老的石筑部分逐渐崩塌。
   crumbling colonial buildings 逐渐坍塌的殖民时期建筑

   civil engineer:土木工程师

2. The Genoa bridge is based on a design called a cable-stayed bridge, although it is a somewhat unusual variant. Such a bridge uses one or more towers, from which run cables that support the deck of the bridge. This is different from a suspension bridge, such as the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, in which the cables holding up the deck are suspended vertically from a main cable anchored at either end of the bridge. Cable-stayed bridges are widely used, mainly for spans shorter than those crossed in one go by a suspension bridge.

   cable-stayed bridge:

   A cable-stayed bridge has one or more towers (or pylons), from which cables support the bridge deck. A distinctive feature are the cables or stays, which run directly from the tower to the deck, normally forming a fan-like pattern or a series of parallel lines. This is in contrast to the modern suspension bridge, where the cables supporting the deck are suspended vertically from the main cable, anchored at both ends of the bridge and running between the towers. The cable-stayed bridge is optimal for spans longer than cantilever bridges and shorter than suspension bridges. This is the range where cantilever bridges would rapidly grow heavier if the span were lengthened, while suspension bridge cabling would not be more economical if the span were shortened.
   Cable-stayed bridges have been known since the 16th century and used widely since the 19th. Early examples often combined features from both the cable-stayed and suspension designs, including the famous Brooklyn Bridge. The design fell from favor through the 20th century as larger gaps were bridged using pure suspension designs, and shorter ones using various systems built of reinforced concrete. It once again rose to prominence in the later 20th century when the combination of new materials, larger construction machinery, and the need to replace older bridges all lowered the relative price of these designs.

3. A familiar feature of a cable-stayed bridge is that the cables form a fan-like pattern emanating from the supporting tower. If one of the cables is damaged or breaks, it should be obvious; the loading on the bridge is calculated so that the remaining cables will be capable of holding the structure up. The Morandi bridge is different because it was supported by pre-stressed concrete tendons. The tendons are made from bundles of steel wires tightened to produce compressive strength and then encased in concrete. The bridge was designed by Riccardo Morandi, a proponent of this type of bridge. Only a few have been built around the world.

   emanate:

   to produce a smell, light etc, or to show a particular quality
   发出〔气味、光等〕；表现出〔某种品质〕
   He emanates tranquility. 他身上散发着一种恬静气质。

   tendon:

   a thick strong string-like part of your body that connects a muscle to a bone 腱

   encase:

   to cover or surround something completely
   把…包住；把…围住
   encase sth in sth
   His broken leg was encased in plaster.
   他骨折的腿上打着石膏。

4. Concerns about Genoa’s bridge had been raised in the past. The Italian media has reported that in 2016, Antonio Brencich, a specialist in reinforced concrete at the University of Genoa, described the bridge as a “failure of engineering” and that sooner or later it would have to be replaced. Daniele Zonta, a civil-engineering expert at the University of Strathclyde, in Britain, says that since the opening of the bridge in 1967 the tendons have required continuous monitoring and maintenance.

5. **Although the design of the bridge is unusual, it is much too early to say if that played any fundamental part in the collapse.** And in other respects, the Morandi bridge is far from atypical. All around the world bridges built long ago, particularly those using reinforced concrete, are deteriorating. Even back in 1999, a study found that around 30% of road bridges in Europe had some sort of defect, particularly corrosion of their steel reinforcing or pre-stressed tendons.

6. A report from the American Road & Transportation Builders Association in January is even more sobering. It reckoned that 54,259 of that country’s 612,677 bridges are “structurally deficient”. These problem bridges have an average age of 67 years and are crossed by vehicles 174m times every day. At the present rate of repair and replacement, it will take 37 years to remedy all the problems, says Alison Premo Black, the organisation’s chief economist.

   sobering:

   making you feel very serious
   使人警醒的，使人清醒的
   It was a sobering thought.
   这是一个令人警醒的想法。
   The news had a sobering effect.
   这消息发人深省。

   remedy:

   to deal with a problem or improve a bad situation

   补救；纠正；改善

   To remedy the situation, the water must be chemically treated.

   为了改善这种情况，水必须进行化学处理。

7. What is going wrong with these bridges? The difficulty is that concrete, or rather the steel used to reinforce it, can fail in a number of ways. Salt, ice and the pounding of weather can cause tiny fractures in the concrete’s surface. As these cracks creep inward, they let in water. Once the water reaches the steel reinforcing or tendons, it corrodes them. This enlarges the cracks, which can cause the concrete to fall apart. That this is happening is evident from rusty streaks on crumbling concrete.

   fracture:

   a crack or broken part in a bone or other hard substance

   骨折，骨裂；裂缝，裂痕

   creep:

   1).

   to gradually enter something and change it
   渐渐侵入，逐渐融进
   [+ in/into/over etc]

   2).

   if something such as an insect, small animal, or car creeps, it moves slowly and quietly

   〔昆虫、小动物、汽车等〕轻声地缓慢行进，爬行，匍匐

8. Heavy traffic

   Other factors compound the deterioration of bridges, such as a constant cyclic vibration from traffic, says Mehdi Kashani, an expert in structural mechanics at the University of Southampton, in Britain. This is troublesome for bridges designed in the 1960s, when traffic flows were lower, cars were smaller and lorries much lighter. On top of that, extreme weather can take a toll, with heat and cold expanding and contracting the structure, floods eroding away foundations and high winds buffeting the bridge. This is why regular inspections and maintenance are essential.

   compound:

   to make a difficult situation worse by adding more problems
   使恶化，加重
   compound a problem/difficulty etc

   toll:

   a very bad effect that something has on something or someone over a long period of time
   严重的不良影响
   [+ on]
   Years of smoking have taken their toll on his health.
   多年的吸烟习惯已严重损害他的健康。
   a heavy toll on the environment
   对环境的严重损害

   buffet:

   if something, especially wind, rain, or the sea, buffets something, it hits it with a lot of force
   〔尤指风、雨或海浪〕猛烈袭击
   London was buffeted by storms last night.
   伦敦昨晚遭到暴风雨的袭击。

9. New methods of monitoring structures are available to help engineers spot problems before they become critical. Instead of the arduous task of climbing up bridges or erecting scaffolding, camera drones can easily take a close-up picture of just about any part of a bridge. Electronic sensors can provide regular readings of any movement in the structure. And laser scanners are capable of picking up fine details and displaying them as a three-dimensional image. All this should help, but only if regimes exist to ensure that careful monitoring and preventive maintenance take place. If such tasks are skipped, for whatever reason, the result could be disaster. “The Genoa bridge is not the first to fall down,” says Dr Kashani. “And unfortunately it will not be the last.”

   arduous:

   involving a lot of strength and effort
   费力的，艰巨的
   arduous task/work
   the arduous task of loading all the boxes into the van
   将所有箱子搬上货车的费力活儿
   arduous journey/voyage
   an arduous journey through the mountains
   穿越山区的艰苦旅程

   scaffold:

   1).

   a structure built next to a wall, for workers to stand on while they build, repair, or paint a building

   〔建筑工人用的〕脚手架

   2).

   a structure that can be moved up and down to help people work on high buildings

   〔建筑工人用的〕升降吊架，吊篮

   regime:管理体制

10. Repair or replace?

    Monitoring and repair are not the only options. When bridges were being built in the 1950s, 60s and 70s, many were expected to last for more than 100 years. But the decay of reinforced concrete leads some civil engineers to think that such bridges may have a life of only 50-60 years. That means thousands of bridges are coming to the end of their days. Refurbishment is possible, but it is slow and very costly. It might end up being more expensive than building a new bridge.

    refurbishment:

    N-UNCOUNT The refurbishment of something is the act or process of cleaning it, decorating it, and providing it with new equipment or facilities.
    翻新; 整修

11. New structures can also take advantage of advances in engineering. There has been huge progress in materials science, so much so that it is now possible to tinker with the internal structure of substances to make concrete more robust and steel better at resisting rust. Ultra-high-performance concrete is already being made in some countries to toughen buildings against such things as earthquakes and bombs. Apart from just sand and cement, other ingredients are added to these super concretes, such as quartz and various reinforcing materials. In some tests, the addition of plant fibres has been shown to produce markedly stronger concrete.

    quartz:石英

12. Self-healing concrete is also being explored. Different methods can be used, but the basic idea is that, should cracks appear in the surface, they will trigger a chemical reaction that seals them up again.

    self-healing:自我修复的

13. Wholesale replacement of elderly bridges would be an expensive exercise, however. The Governor Mario M Cuomo Bridge, which opened as a replacement for the old Tappan Zee Bridge which crosses the Hudson River in New York, is expected to become fully operational later this year. It is also a cable-stayed bridge, but one of a more traditional design. It is expected to cost some 4bn. The old bridge, built largely from steel and concrete in the 1950s, was knocked up for some 60m, which in today’s terms would be a bargain $564m. The Tappan Zee Bridge was predicted to have a lifetime of only 50 years; it managed nearly 62. Its replacement is supposed to last for a century. Time will tell.