​       Politics this week

1. For the first time in weeks Israel allowed commercial goods to pass through its border crossing with Gaza at Kerem Shalom. Israel had blocked all but humanitarian deliveries in response to incendiary kite and balloon attacks by Palestinians. A truce was recently announced. Egypt is trying to broker a long-term ceasefire between Israel and Hamas, the militant group that controls Gaza.

   truce :

   an agreement between enemies to stop fighting or arguing for a short time, or the period for which this is arranged 

   

2. Tunisia’s president, Beji Caid Essebsi, said he would introduce a bill to give women and men equal inheritance rights. Religious conservatives objected. Laws inspired by the Koran restrict women to half of what men get.

   

3. Time for a confession

   Catholic priests in Pennsylvania abused hundreds of children over several decades, according to a report by a grand jury. The report described how senior church officials systematically covered up the abuse. Almost all the crimes have passed the statute of limitations for trials to be held. See article.

   limitation:追诉时效；有效期限

   

4. Kris Kobach became the Republican candidate for governor in Kansas after the incumbent, Jeff Colyer, conceded defeat in the recent close-run primary. Mr Kobach, an outspoken supporter of Donald Trump, is likely to win in November. See article.

   close-run:

   in a close-run competition, the winner succeeds by a very small distance or number of points, votes etc

   〔比赛等〕险胜的
   The Labour Party won the seat, but it was a close-run thing.
   工党赢得了席位，但胜得很险。

   

5. Vermont’s Democratic primary for governor was won by a transgender woman. Christine Hallquist, a former electricity executive, is the first transgender person from either party to run as a candidate for governor. She faces an uphill task unseating Phil Scott, the Republican incumbent.

   uphill task:费力的工作

   unseat:

   1).
   to remove someone from a powerful job or position
   免除〔要职〕，拉…下马
   an attempt to unseat the party leader
   罢免政党领导的企图
   2).
   if a horse unseats someone, it throws them off its back
   〔马〕把〔骑手〕摔下来

   

6. A rally by white nationalists in Washington failed to live up to its hype. Only two dozen marchers turned up. See article.

   hype:

   attempts to make people think something is good or important by talking about it a lot on television, the radio etc – used to show disapproval

   〔传媒的〕大肆宣传，炒作〔含贬义〕

   RELTD exaggeration 
   Some experts are concerned that the new drug won’t live up to all the hype.
   一些专家担心这种新药并不像宣传中那么好。
   Despite the media hype , I found the film very disappointing.
   尽管媒体大肆炒作，我还是觉得这部影片很让人失望。

   

7. Fuel in a crisis

   President Nicolás Maduro said that the official price of petrol in Venezuela, which is close to zero, will rise to international levels. He hopes the higher price will reduce queues. The almost-free petrol is almost never available to ordinary Venezuelans, since regime cronies tend to grab it and sell it on the black market at a colossal mark-up. The government arrested 14 more people for their alleged role in an attempt to assassinate Mr Maduro, bringing the total number of arrests to 26.

   crony:

   one of a group of people who spend a lot of time with each other - used to show disapproval

   colossal:

   used to emphasize that something is extremely large
   巨大的，庞大的
   a colossal statue of the King 国王的巨大雕像
   This whole holiday was a colossal waste of money.
   这次度假浪费了大量的钱财。

   mark-up:

   an increase in the price of something, especially from the price a shop pays for something to the price it sells it for

   提价幅度〔尤指商店从进货价到售出价的增加幅度〕

   The retailer’s mark-up is 50%.

   零售商的提价幅度是50%。 

   

8. Costa Rica’s supreme court ruled that the country’s ban on same-sex marriage is unconstitutional and told the legislative assembly to change the law within 18 months. If the legislature does not act, the ban will automatically lapse. In January the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, which is based in Costa Rica’s capital, San José, decided that the two-dozen countries that fall within its jurisdiction must accept gay marriage.

   assembly:

   a group of people who are elected to make decisions or laws for a particular country, area, or organization

   议会；立法机构

   

9. Mario Abdo Benítez, a conservative former senator, took office as Paraguay’s president. His father was the private secretary of Alfredo Stroessner, the country’s dictator from 1954 to 1989.

   

10. The postmaster in the village of Odhanga in the Indian state of Odisha was suspended after it was discovered that he had failed to deliver thousands of letters. Although he was selective in the mail he junked and admitted the charges, he expressed little regret. Most of the letters can’t be salvaged. Neither can the postmaster’s job, as officials have stamped their authority and said he will probably get the sack.

    junk:

    to get rid of something because it is old or useless

    丢掉〔废旧物品〕

    salvage :

    1).
    to save something from an accident or bad situation in which other things have already been damaged, destroyed, or lost
    〔从事故或糟糕情形中〕抢救出〔某物〕
    Divers hope to salvage some of the ship’s cargo. 潜水员希望能够抢救出船上部分货物。
    salvage sth from sth
    They managed to salvage only a few of their belongings from the fire.
    他们从大火中只抢救出几样自己的东西。
    2).
    to make sure that you do not lose something completely, or to make sure that something does not fail completely
    挽救，挽回
    SYN save 
    He fought to salvage the company’s reputation .
    他竭力挽回公司的声誉。

    

11. Belly-up in Buraydah: Saudi Arabia

    Saudi businessmen can now go for broke. A new bankruptcy law takes effect tomorrow, the country’s first. It replaces the old patchwork of royal decrees, under which liquidations could take a decade or more to wind through the courts. The law should help the crown prince, Muhammad bin Salman, woo investors to energise the hidebound economy. Saudi Arabia is pulling out of a recession, with 1.2% growth in the most recent quarter. But much of that is down to higher government spending. Private non-oil business is sluggish, and the IMF predicts it will stay like that until 2023. Some 7% of expats—around 700,000 in total—have left over the past five quarters. But that does not mean more jobs for Saudis. The unemployment rate for nationals ticked up slightly to 12.9%. Many businesses are struggling with subsidy cuts that raised electricity and fuel prices. Changing the laws is easy; creating jobs is harder.

    go for broke:

    1).破产

    2).全力以赴，孤注一掷

    Maybe being laid off was a blessing in disguise. Maybe, it is time for you to conquer your fears and go for broke. 
    也许被解雇对你来说是塞翁失马，因祸得福；也许失业正是你征服恐惧和全力以赴、破釜沉舟的良好时机。

    When Winston Churchill was defeated in the 1945 general election, his wife, Clementine, told him it was "a blessing in disguise". 
    当丘吉尔在1945年的大选中落败的时候，他的妻子克莱曼婷告诉他“塞翁失马，焉知非福”。

    liquidation:

    the act of closing a company by selling the things that belong to it, in order to pay its debts
    停业清盘，清算〔指公司停业后出售资产以偿还债务〕
    Hundreds of small businesses went into liquidation (= were closed ). 
    数以百计的小公司破产了

    

12. Focus: the travel industry

    This summer we are running week-long series focusing on a single subject. Here, in the final article on travel and tourism, we look at the advent of artificial intelligence.

    “A freestyle broom in mince?” Forget the hype; most people after a three-star hotel in Belarus’s capital find it easier to type on a website, not talk to it. But travel firms have high hopes for artificial intelligence. People use more words speaking to an AI interface than when typing, so searches will become more nuanced. At some companies, chatbots already respond to the majority of customers’ questions. Optimists claim AI will soon know what sort of trip customers want before customers themselves do, and will then find the perfect marketing channel. Carnival, a cruise operator, has experimented with tagging passengers so it can track them on the ship, helping it deploy staff (and target offers from shops and bars). The future may be particularly bright for sourpusses. Already hotel guests can check in online, receive room-keys on smartphones and be served by automated butlers. Soon they might never need to interact with human staff.

    

13. A big lift for the big-box leader: Walmart’s shares soared after it announced better-than-expected quarterly sales and profits. The world’s largest retailer reported the strongest growth for over a decade in like-for-like sales (ie, at stores open for at least 12 months). Meanwhile online sales climbed 40%, an acceleration on the previous quarter. Walmart duly revised up its full-year profit forecast.

    

14. More than a thousand Google employees signed a letter asking their bosses to explain rumours that the firm is preparing a censored version of its search engine, codenamed “Dragonfly”, for use in mainland China. Google left eight years ago after refusing to block search results containing content the Communist Party finds disagreeable. It is reported to be planning its return.

    

15. In a first for a big American medical school, New York University School of Medicine is to offer free tuition to all students. A universal scholarship will cover the annual $55,000 fee. NYU said the move was driven by concerns over the risk of “overwhelming” student debt; financial worries have pushed graduates towards more lucrative professions, causing shortages of doctors.

    

16. Italy’s politicians turned on Autostrade per l’Italia, the firm responsible for maintaining a bridge that collapsed in Genoa, killing 39 people. Luigi Di Maio, the deputy prime minister, threatened to nationalise bridge maintenance. Others called for swingeing fines. The firm said it carried out work correctly, and would demand compensation for terminated contracts. Shares in the holding company tumbled.

    swingeing:激烈的，极大的

    swingeing cuts
    very severe reductions in spending, especially by a government or organization
    〔尤指政府或组织的〕大幅开支削减
    SYN sweeping BrE 【英】
    swingeing cuts in public spending
    公共开支的大幅削减

    

17. Mali’s president, Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta, won a second term after receiving 67% of votes in a second-round run-off. The election was marred by accusations of vote-rigging and violence, with some 500 polling stations closed due to jihadist threats. Mr Keïta must now focus on ending the escalating bloodshed in the country’s central and northern regions.

    

18. America’s Department of Defence postponed for at least one year a military parade that was scheduled to take place in Washington in November. Officials said that they expected the event to cost about $92m—at least three times more than the original estimate. Donald Trump had requested a parade after being impressed by France’s Bastille Day celebrations last summer.

    Bastille Day :巴士底日（7月14日， 法国国庆日）

