​       a feeding frenzy

​       Alibaba and Tencent have become China’s most formidable investors

​       Their gorging is shaping the next shoal of startups

1. SENSETIME, the world’s most valuable artificial-intelligence startup, was not one to “bow and scrape for five pecks of rice”, said Tang Xiaoou, one of its co-founders, last September. Yet within two months the proud firm, which is worth $4.5bn, had buckled and taken investment from Alibaba, a Chinese e-commerce titan. For ambitious entrepreneurs, it was all of a piece with a bleak scene that Mr Tang had described: “Google and Facebook ahead of you; behind you, a gaggle of small companies thinking of copying you. And above you, three big mountains.”

   a feeding frenzy
   an occasion when a lot of people get involved in an activity in an uncontrolled way
   热潮
   The film put America’s moviegoers into a feeding frenzy.
   这部影片在美国影迷中掀起了一阵热潮。
   an occasion when a lot of wild animals, especially sharks , eat something in a very excited way
   〔尤指鲨鱼群的〕争食

   formidable：强大的，可拍的，令人敬畏的

   gorge：

   be gorged with sth
   to be completely full of something
   肚子塞满，饱食

   shoal ：浅滩，沙洲

   bow and scrape for five pecks of rice：为五斗米折腰

   buckle：

   do sth you do not want

   做不愿意的事情
   [I] to do something that you do not want to do because a difficult situation forces you to do it
   屈服，让步
   SYN give in 
   He refused to buckle.
   他拒绝屈服。
   buckle under the pressure/strain/weight
   A weaker person would have buckled under the weight of criticism.
   意志薄弱的人在这样的批评下也许已经垮了。

   a bleak scene ：一片萧瑟的景象

   gaggle：一群

   

2. Those three Chinese mountains are Baidu, an online-search giant, Alibaba and Tencent, a social-media and gaming titan, collectively known as BAT. Ever fewer promising young Chinese companies seem able to escape the reach of their insatiable investment teams. The tech triumvirate has already invested, directly or indirectly, in half of the 124 startups counted as “unicorns” (those worth 1bn or more) by IT Juzi, a database of startups in Beijing. By the time firms hit the $5bn mark, over 80% have taken a form of BAT investment. Their reach is a growing concern among entrepreneurs, though few openly admit it.

   promising：有希望的，有前途的

   insatiable：贪得无厌的，不知足的

   triumvirate ：a group of three very powerful people 

   

3. Of the triumvirate, two are colossi. Even after declines in their share prices, Alibaba and Tencent are still worth close to half a trillion dollars. In recent years both have moved out of their core businesses into areas as varied as bike-sharing, ride-hailing and food delivery, clashing frequently along the way. Mature and powerful, they are ruthlessly blocking and tackling not only each other, but any firm that sides with the enemy.

   colossi：巨人，要人；庞然大物；巨大势力

   clash：冲突，碰撞

   

4. More startups are thus becoming locked into a proxy war over the consumer internet, in turn shaping how young businesses strategise and grow. The risk is that China develops a sort of mandated form of entrepreneurship, driven by the strategies of a near-duopoly. That would be a disappointing turn of events for a calibre of innovators unseen in the country for years. 

   turn of events：形势的变化

   calibre：

   the level of quality or ability that someone or something has achieved
   〔人的〕能力，才干；〔事物的〕质量，水准
   The school attracts a high calibre of student.
   这所学校吸引高素质的学生。
   of sb’s calibre
   Where will we find another man of his calibre?
   我们到哪儿再找一个像他这样有才干的人？
   of high/the right etc calibre
   The paintings were of the highest caliber.
   这些画是最高水准的。
   of this/that calibre
   The city needs a hotel of this calibre (= of this high standard ) .
   这座城市需要一家这样高档的酒店。

   

5. To venture-capital (VC) firms in America, the story may well sound familiar. There the talk is of a “kill-zone” around acquisitive technology giants including Amazon, Facebook and Google, also mainly in consumer-internet products. But for sheer breadth and firepower, look to China. According to McKinsey, a consultant, America’s giants make just 5% of all domestic VC investments, whereas between them the BATs account for close to half of those in China (though Baidu’s are relatively meagre). Tencent has a portfolio of 600 stakeholdings acquired over the past six years (see chart), many unannounced. There is barely a trace of bombast when Jack Ma, Alibaba’s founder, says that he eventually hopes to see former Alibaba employees running 200 of the top 500 Chinese firms.

   acquisitive：

   wanting to have and keep a lot of possessions
   贪得无厌的

   But for sheer breadth and firepower, look to China. 

   但对于纯粹的广度和火力，你可以看看中国。 

   meagre：

   a meagre amount of food, money etc is too small and is much less than you need
   〔食物、钱等〕不足的，微薄的
   RELTD substantial 
   a meagre diet of bread and beans
   不足以果腹的面包和豆子
   meagre income/earnings/wages etc
   He supplements his meager income by working on Saturdays.
   他靠周六做工来补贴他微薄的收入。
   a school with meagre resources
   资源不足的学校

   There is barely a trace of bombast.

   几乎没有夸大的痕迹

   

6. Wen Feixiang, IT Juzi’s founder, says that it is becoming received wisdom that to grow into a unicorn, a young firm has no choice but to join one of the two camps. Alibaba and Tencent are offering more than just large cheques. Their platforms have become irresistible. WeChat, Tencent’s instant-messaging service, counts over 1bn users. Alibaba’s emporia are home to 1m merchants. Between them they account for 94% of mobile transactions through WeChat Pay and Alipay, their rival payment systems.

   emporia：商业中心

   

7. In America, venture capitalists shy away from backing startups whose business centres on the consumer internet, because the likes of Google and Facebook are so dominant there. In China that is not yet the case, and early-round financing remains plentiful. Many VCs try to sniff out the sparkiest startups, anticipating a generous exit later when the giants buy in. Then dozens of young firms race each other to secure funding from Alibaba or Tencent.

   shy away from：回避，退缩

   sniff out ：

   If you sniff out something, you discover it after some searching. 
   找出
   ...journalists who are trained to sniff out scandal. 
   ...专门训练来找出丑闻的记者。
   When a dog used by a group such as the police sniffs out hidden explosives or drugs, it finds them using its sense of smell.
   嗅出 (爆炸物或毒品)
   ...a police dog trained to sniff out explosives. 
   ...一条受过训练能嗅出爆炸物的警犬。

   sparky：

   full of life and energy

   活泼的，充满活力的

   

8. That race helps propel entrepreneurship, argues Gan Jie, a professor and board member of DJI, a whizzy drone firm that, despite its valuation of 15bn, has not taken investment from either Alibaba or Tencent (it, along with other Chinese hardware companies, has found it easier to resist). But it also means the giants get to determine who wins and who loses, she adds. When Tencent invested 600m last summer in Mobike, a shared-bike startup, for example, Alibaba countered with a $700m stake in a rival, Ofo. In a flash, dozens of smaller competitors were out of the race.

   propel ：to move, drive, or push something forward 

   entrepreneurship：企业家精神

   whizzy ：技术上创新的，高技术的

   

9. The duopoly’s rivalry also thwarts ambition at younger firms. The story of Ele.me, a food-delivery platform founded a decade ago, whose name roughly means “Hungry yet?”, is illustrative. It was expected to grow into an independent firm with a valuation as high as 20bn or more. But in 2015 a merger occurred which made Alibaba feel insecure in food delivery. Meituan, backed by Alibaba, joined with its arch-rival, Dazhong Dianping, backed by Tencent. Soon afterwards Meituan-Dianping raised ​$3.3bn in a funding round led by Tencent, giving the latter more sway.

   thwart：挫败，阻碍

   sway：影响，统治

   

10. Alibaba’s riposte was to dump almost the entirety of its shares in Meituan. Seeking a new way to rival it, Alibaba invested in Ele.me and in April bought the platform outright, in a deal that valued Ele.me at $9.5bn. It is now merely part of Alibaba’s arsenal, one among 60 investments the giant has made since 2017, according to a tally by Sanford C. Bernstein, a research firm. An Alibaba vice-president has been installed as its new chief executive.

    riposte：还击，机敏的回答

    dump：抛售

    

11. As ambition shrinks within startups, innovation suffers. Few are trying to build a platform of users, because they expect to rely for traffic on WeChat. Startups which win Tencent’s or Alibaba’s favour expect to profit from reams of data, logistics networks, payment gateways and technological support, too. Gordon Orr, a former head of China for McKinsey, says that entrepreneurs tend to prefer a data-sharing agreement cemented with an equity shareholding than one without. For Alibaba and Tencent, these often come with a board seat and voting rights.

    ream：大量

    reams of notes 大量的笔记

    

12. The Chinese government, for its part, is surely delighted that its national technology champions are snapping up stakes in hundreds of startups. Being able to manage a handful of established private players with long-standing links to the Communist Party, with their tentacles in many young firms, makes the whole tech industry easier to control, be it through censorship directives or in directing its know-how to the state’s industrial plans.

    snap up：抢购

    tentacle :

    one of the long thin parts of a sea creature such as an octopus which it uses for holding things
    〔章鱼等海洋动物的〕触手，触角，触须
    tentacles
    [plural,复数] the influence or effect that something has on other people or things - used to show disapproval
    影响；束缚；约束〔含贬义〕
    The company’s tentacles spread from car manufacturing to railways.
    这家公司的扩张触角从汽车制造业伸向了铁路运输业。

    octopus：章鱼

    

13. For that reason, the government is unlikely to want to break up the “walled gardens” that the giants have built round their offerings, in which startups must also operate. WeChat does not let users send friends direct links to Taobao, Alibaba’s main shopping site. Apps owned by the two firms tend to make it either finicky or impossible to pay using their rival’s payment system. Startups with backing from Alibaba or from Tencent have therefore come to expect to be frozen out of parts of the market. Liu Zihong, founder of Royole, an independent startup valued at $5bn that makes flexible displays, says that, as a rule, “if you band with one giant you lose the chance to work with the other”.

    finicky：

    SYN fussy

    too concerned with unimportant details and small things that you like or dislike
    过分讲究的，爱挑剔的，苛刻的

    band:

    band together
    if people band together, they unite in order to achieve something
    团结起来，联手
    Local people have banded together to fight the company’s plans.
    当地民众联手抵制该公司的计划。

    

14. As independents, plenty of startups are giving Alibaba and Tencent a run for their money, often serving markets into which the giants have been slower to move. Pinduoduo, a discount-buying app, built its group-buying platform by targeting China’s poorer cities. Tencent soon took a stake. Douyin and Huoshan, short-video apps backed by Bytedance, a technology firm with no current ties to the two giants, have hooked youngsters and left Tencent scrambling to create a rival offering.

    scramble：

    to try to do something difficult very quickly
    仓促完成〔困难的事〕
    scramble to do sth
    They were scrambling to give the impression that the situation was in control.
    他们急于给人一种形势已得到控制的印象。

    

15. Fast-growing platforms such as Youmiao, a luxury-handbag rental firm based in Hangzhou (also home to Alibaba), reckon they can take their pick of the giants’ investment offers (Alibaba and Tencent came calling within months of Youmiao’s launch). Some firms reject investment from the duopoly. Lea Liu of QingCloud, an ambitious cloud-computing platform in Beijing, says that “if you want to be IBM for the cloud, you cannot be a pawn in a giant’s data-technology strategy”.

    pawn：[国际象棋中]兵，卒

    

16. Many entrepreneurs also welcome the recent rise of a new tech trinity: TMD, for Toutiao (a news-aggregation app owned by Bytedance), Meituan and Didi Chuxing (a ride-hailing service). The trio are among China’s fastest-growing platforms, all founded since 2010. Meituan and Didi both rose with backing from a giant, but Bytedance publicly fell out with Alibaba-backed Weibo, a Twitter-like platform that eventually retracted its investment from the bolshie tech startup. It has since pursued its own course. “Nobody thought that a company like Toutiao would emerge to rival the likes of Tencent and Baidu,” says Richard Peng, a former investment chief for Tencent who now runs Genesis Capital, a China-based venture-capital firm.

    bolshie：不服从的，不合作的

    retract：收回

    Nobody thought that a company like Toutiao would emerge to rival the likes of Tencent and Baidu.

    没有人曾经想过像Toutiao这样的公司会与腾讯和百度这样的公司竞争。

    

17. Last year Meituan set up its own investment fund, opening a new channel for startups (that is at some distance from Tencent). It will doubtless be closely monitored by the duopoly. The two firms have rarely been so watchful of the other, in a competition that Tencent’s Pony Ma says has been “formalised in our country”. Even he has confessed on occasion that it is an unhealthy one. But the two giants should be on their guard for another reason: having for so long fostered innovation, they are now at risk of sapping it. They would be among the first to suffer.

    on occasion：有时，偶尔

    sap：

    to make something weaker or destroy it, especially someone’s strength or their determination to do something
    〔逐渐〕削弱，消耗〔尤指力量或决心〕
    SYN weaken 
    sap sb’s strength/courage/energy
    Her long illness was gradually sapping Charlotte’s strength.
    长期生病正逐渐消耗着夏洛特的元气。

    on their guard：警惕

    The change of our living environment makes people always feel on their guard against others. 
    居住环境的改变，令很多居民对身边的邻居抱着提防之心，不少人都在心里上了一把“锁”，总有种不安全感。