1. Small but mighty

   In the 1970s Japan overtook America in a succession of industries, including textiles, consumer electronics and steel. Today Japan’s economic position is much reduced. Yet in one regard, its sway still holds. Japan’s influence on global asset markets has kept growing as decades of the country’s surplus savings have piled up. What happens in Japan thus matters a great deal to an array of global asset prices.

   sway：影响，统治

   

2. Weather and power

   As the planet warms, heatwaves will become more common. History offers cautionary tales about the effects of such extreme weather: a new paper finds that low rainfall patterns were strongly associated with shorter periods in power for Roman emperors. Lower precipitation reduced crop yields, leading soldiers stationed at the empire’s frontiers to starve. As a result, troops were more likely to stage mutinies and assassinate their emperor.

   cautionary tale：警示故事

   station：配置，安置，驻扎

   frontier：前沿，边界，边境

   stage：举行，上演，筹划

   mutiny：兵变，叛乱，暴动

   assassinate：暗杀，行刺

   

3. Is it time to automate politicians?

   In a world where reality is sometimes more bizarre than fiction, trust in politicians is low and government efficiency is questionable, might we be better off replacing our current politicians with algorithms? Robotic representation has some merits, but it cannot replace the leadership skills that come from human intelligence.

   bizarre：古怪的；奇异的 

   

4. Plastic, but not toys: 3D-printed guns

   Today Cody Wilson, a self-described anarchist, was to publish online instructions today to help anyone with a 3D printer make a handgun. But his plan was stymied yesterday by a federal judge, who issued a temporary restraining order after last-minute petitioning by several states. It was the latest development in his three-year legal battle with America’s government, which ordered Mr Wilson to remove the guide in 2013. He complied, but fought the order in court on free-speech grounds. Last month the case was settled in his favour. It seemed to be over—to the horror of gun-control advocates. But now the litigation will continue. 3D-printed guns are alarming for two reasons: They are untraceable, lacking serial numbers, and they can slip through metal detectors. Even Donald Trump appeared sceptical of the idea that they should be available. Yesterday, he tweeted, he was “looking into” the matter. “Already spoke to NRA, doesn’t seem to make much sense!”

   anarchist：无zf主义者

   stymy：完全妨碍，从中作乱

   petition：请愿，请求

   

5. Back in style: Prada

   Profits at the luxury group contracted by 15% between 2012 and 2017, five times the sector’s average. Yet having shrunk for four years to €3.1bn ($3.6bn), revenues are finally growing. Prada has increased offerings of lower-priced handbags and of trainers, one of luxury’s fastest-growing segments. It has curbed costs, focused on digital and launched pop-up stores to attract millennials. Today’s half-year results should confirm a turnaround: J.P. Morgan, a bank, expects profits to have grown 13% to €155m. Yet Prada still lags behind. Half-year profits at LVMH, the world’s biggest luxury group, rose 28% to €4.6bn; those of Kering, a smaller outfit, grew 47.6% to €2bn. And threats abound, from toughening competition to a possible trade war. According to UBS, a bank, tariffs may not directly affect the industry—most production is European. But weaker consumer confidence and growth brought on by a trade war could dampen demand by 30%.

   contract：收缩，感染，定约

   shrink：收缩

   abound：to exist in very large numbers
   大量存在
   Rumours abound as to the reasons for his promotion.
   有关他升职的原因有各种各样的谣传。
   Examples of this abound in her book.
   这样的例子在她书中比比皆是。

   abound with/in sth phr v
   if a place, situation etc abounds with things of a particular type, it contains a very large number of them
   富于，盛产
   The forests abound with deer, birds, and squirrels. 
   森林里有许许多多的鹿、鸟和松鼠。

   

6. Apple brushed aside worries about a shrinking global smartphone market to deliver its best-ever results for the April-June quarter. Fuelled by strong demand for its premium iPhone X, earnings rose 17% year-on-year to $53bn, beating forecasts. Record revenues from its services business, such as its app store, showed that Apple is also cutting its reliance on hardware sales.

   brush aside：扫除，漠视

   cut reliance：减少依赖

   

7. Businesses and economists fret about a trade war, but America’s consumers still think it boom-time. The national consumer-confidence index, produced by the Conference Board, a business association, edged up in July, following a small drop in June. Most commentators had expected another fall. Consumers do appear to have become less optimistic about whether the good times will last, however. 

   fret about：烦恼，担心

   boom-time：繁荣时期

   edge up：小幅上涨

   commentator：评论员