       A plant’s ancient relationship with a beetle

       Cycads have relied on beetles for pollination since before the dinosaurs

1. CYCADS look the part of foliage on a “Jurassic Park” film set for a reason. The plants are indeed very ancient. They evolved during the Permian period, millions of years before the first dinosaurs existed. Although classified in the same group as conifers, cycads do not release their pollen into the wind like the rest of their kin. Instead, each species of cycad that remains today relies on a specific type of beetle for pollination. This is unusual for a non-flowering plant like the cycad, and has left palaeobotanists curious about how long the plants have relied upon this method. The answer, it seems, is just about for ever.

   cycad:苏铁科植物

   beetle:甲虫，甲壳虫

   pollination:[农学]授粉(作用)

   dinosaur:恐龙

   foliage:

   the leaves of a plant

   〔植物的〕叶子，叶

   dark green foliage 墨绿色的叶子

   Jurassic:[地质]侏罗纪

   Permian period:二叠纪

   conifer:[植]松柏科植物

   kin:亲戚，家族，同族

   palaeobotanist:古植物学家

   palaeobotany: the study of fossil plants

   fossilise :使变成化石

2. According to a study by Chenyang Cai of the University of Bristol, in Britain, reported in Current Biology this week, cycads have been luring beetles to do their bidding for nearly 100m years. Dr Cai has found the evidence in a fossil. Seeing two organisms interacting with one another in a fossil is remarkably rare; it usually involves finding the teeth of a predator lodged in the bones of prey. So it was particularly exciting for Dr Cai when he spotted cycad pollen fossilised alongside a 2mm-long beetle found in northern Myanmar (pictured).

   lodge:寄宿

3. The beetle died 99m years ago, when it got trapped inside sticky tree sap. This sap eventually hardened into amber around the insect and preserved its corpse in pristine condition. Since the amber is clear, Dr Cai and his colleagues have been able to study the beetle and the other material that got lodged in the sap. Their analysis revealed not just the cycad pollen but also that the bug belongs to the family Boganiidae, of which cycad-pollinating beetles are a part.

   sap:

   the watery substance that carries food through a plant

   〔植物的〕液，汁

   pristine:

   1).
   extremely fresh or clean
   极其新鲜的；洁净的
   THESAURUS clean
   a pristine white shirt
   非常干净的白衬衫
   2).
   something that is pristine is in the same condition as when it was first made
   崭新的，簇新的
   The car has been restored to pristine condition.
   汽车整修后焕然一新。
   3).
   not spoiled or damaged in any way
   未受损害的；处于原始状态的
   pristine African rainforest
   非洲原始雨林

4. Crucially, the beetle has cavities just below its jaw filled with tiny hardened hairs that are used by these insects today to feed upon and transport cycad pollen. In the face of the fierce competition brought about by the evolution of flowering plants, the asteroid impact that did in the dinosaurs, the rise of mammals and numerous ice ages, cycads seem to have come up with a reproductive plan and stuck to it steadfastly.

   cavity:

   a hole or space inside something
   腔，洞，窟窿
   Put herbs inside the body cavity of the fish.
   把香草放进鱼肚里。
   I have no cavities (= no holes in my teeth ) .
   我没有蛀牙洞。

   asteroid:小行星

5. Several areas are crying out for fresh thinking. Many state-owned firms are woefully inefficient. Why not privatise some and see what happens? Chinese farmers lack clear title to their land. Perhaps some places could try giving them property rights? Rural migrants are treated as second-class citizens in big cities, deprived of public services. If their grievances are not dealt with, they could destabilise China. Why not ask some of these cities to try scrapping the pernicious household-registration system that is the root cause of the migrants’ woes? 