Business this week

1. The United States and Mexico reached a deal on revising the *North American Free Trade Agreement*. Mexico made several concessions, notably on car manufacturing, which America had demanded in order to boost its own automotive industry. President Donald Trump suggested that Canada, the other partner in NAFTA, had little choice but to accept the revised accord and said that he might impose new tariffs on its car industry if it did not. Some Republicans chafed at that; a trilateral NAFTA would get a smoother ride in Congress than a bilateral deal with Mexico. 

   chafe:to feel impatient or annoyed

   Some hunters are chafing under the new restrictions. 

2. The S&P 500 and NASDAQ *stockmarket* indices reached record highs, with the latter closing above the 8,000 mark for the first time. They were buoyed in part by a measure of American consumer confidence that registered its strongest reading since October 2000. New data showed that the American economy grew at a slightly faster annualised rate in the second quarter than had been thought: 4.2%.

3. President Mauricio Macri of *Argentina* unexpectedly asked the International Monetary Fund to speed up the disbursement of a loan worth $50bn. He wants to ensure the country can meet its debt obligations in spite of a growing economic crisis. The Argentine peso has lost more than 40% of its value against the American dollar this year and inflation is rising. 

   disbursement:N-UNCOUNT Disbursement is the paying out of a sum of money, especially from a fund.

4. Making your mind up

   Elon Musk reversed course and said that *Tesla* would remain a public company after all. The chief executive of the electric-carmaker stunned investors when he announced in a tweet that he intended to take Tesla private and had “secured” funding. He has since scrambled to explain his plans, amid reports that regulators were investigating whether he had followed the proper rules for disclosing them. Explaining his U-turn, Mr Musk said that going private would be more “time-consuming” than he had originally envisaged.

   course:the planned direction taken by a boat or plane to reach a place

   The plane *changed course* to avoid the storm.

   She tightened the mainsail while *holding the course* (= *travelling in the same direction as planned* ) .

   The aircraft was almost ten miles off course. 

   envisage:to think that something is likely to happen in the future

   The scheme cost a lot more than we had originally envisaged.

   scramble:to try to do something difficult very quickly

   They were scrambling to give the impression that the situation was in control.

5. *Toyota* said it would invest $500m in *Uber* to work on developing autonomous cars. The Japanese carmaker has been more cautious than its global rivals in committing to self-driving technology. Its investment is a boost to Uber’s self-driving project, which suffered a setback after a fatal collision involving a pedestrian and one of its cars in March.

6. China’s biggest ride-hailing firm, *Didi Chuxing*, came under fire after a second murder of a female passenger by one of its drivers within four months. Didi suspended its carpooling service, for which the driver in question worked, but that did not stop the calls on Chinese social media for a boycott of the firm.

7. A meaty issue

   Missouri became the first state in America to outlaw the description of food products as *“meat”* unless they are made from animal flesh. The law is being challenged by producers of lab-grown and plant-based meat alternatives, industries that have grand plans to take on conventional-meat firms.

   outlaw:to completely stop something by making it illegal

   take on:If you take someone on, you fight them or compete against them, especially when they are bigger or more powerful than you are.

   Democrats were reluctant to take on a president whose popularity ratings were historically high. 

8. *Wonga*, the biggest provider of payday loans in Britain, said it was considering “all options” amid reports it is close to collapse. The firm opened shop in 2007, charging interest rates that some said were excessive. But a regulatory crackdown that began in 2014 has crimped profits severely. Wonga has also taken a hit from compensating borrowers for its debt-collection practices. 

   crimp:To crimp something means to restrict or reduce it.

   The dollar's recent strength is crimping overseas sales and profits.

   compensate:to pay someone money because they have suffered injury, loss, or damage

   The firm will compensate workers for their loss of earnings.

9. *Yum China*, which was spun off from Yum Brands in 2016 and operates the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell fast-food chains in China, reportedly rejected a $17bn buy-out offer from a consortium of private investment firms. Yum China is the country’s biggest restaurant company.

   consortium:a group of companies or organizations who are working together to do something

10. The *Turkish lira* came under renewed pressure after Moody’s downgraded 18 Turkish banks, which are heavily reliant on foreign-currency funding. The central bank did little to soothe jittery markets when it reintroduced a cap on overnight lending for banks, a source of liquidity. 

    soothe:to make someone feel calmer and less anxious, upset, or angry

    She made a cup of tea to soothe her nerves.

    jittery:anxious or nervous

    It was probably the tension that made him jittery

    cap:an upper limit that is put on the amount of money that someone can earn, spend, or borrow

11. After enduring its worst-ever spell of industrial action, *Ryanair* said that pilots in Italy, its second-biggest market, had accepted the terms of a new collective labour agreement. It has recently reached a deal with the union representing Irish pilots and has offered fresh negotiations to its British, German and Spanish pilots.

    spell:a period of a particular kind of activity, weather, illness etc, usually a short period

    After a brief spell in the army, I returned to teaching. 

    industrial action:an action such as a strike(= stopping work ) taken by workers involved in a disagreement with their employer

12. The Bond market

    Aston Martin announced plans for an IPO on the London Stock Exchange. The British maker of sports cars has gone bankrupt several times, but business is now booming, particularly in Asia. Its association with the James Bond films partly explains Aston Martin’s success in recent years; it is reproducing 25 versions of the DB5 used in “Goldfinger”, complete with revolving number plates “and more”. It is unlikely that fans will catch much sight of them: the new DB5s are not allowed to be driven on public roads.



    Politics this week

13. A report by the UN Human Rights Council concluded that six senior generals in *Myanmar* should be prosecuted for genocide for leading a pogrom against Rohingya Muslims. The army has tried to deflect condemnation of its actions, but the UN said the crimes were shocking for the “level of denial, normalcy and impunity attached to them”. It also criticised Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar’s de facto leader, for failing to prevent the atrocities. 

    deflect:to do something to stop people paying attention to you, criticizing you etc

    his attempts to *deflect attention* away from his private life 

14. Scott Morrison became *Australia’s* new prime minister, after Malcolm Turnbull was ousted by MPs in his Liberal Party. It is the fifth change of prime minister in a decade. There might be a sixth if a by-election for Mr Turnbull’s parliamentary seat in Sydney wipes out the government’s one-seat majority. 

15. A visit to *North Korea* by Mike Pompeo, America’s secretary of state, was called off. Mr Pompeo was to meet negotiators in Pyongyang, but President Donald Trump said the talks on nuclear disarmament were not advancing, for which he blamed China. North Korea warned that if the talks collapse it will resume tests of missiles and nuclear devices.

16. The unwelcome mat

    Italy allowed almost 140 rescued migrants off a coastguard ship after refusing them entry for nearly a week. But the interior minister warned that Italy will withhold EU budget payments unless a system for sharing out arrivals among other EU countries is found. He also said Italy may breach euro-zone deficit limits in its next budget, due to be published soon. 

    share out:If you share out an amount of something, you give each person in a group an equal or fair part of it

17. Far-right protesters battled with police in the *German* city of Chemnitz, in Saxony. They were demonstrating following the fatal stabbing of a German man, reportedly by Middle Eastern migrants. Some of the protesters beat migrants and gave illegal Nazi salutes.

    salute:an act of raising your right hand to your head as a sign of respect, usually done by a soldier to an officer

18. Emmanuel Macron, the *French* president, suffered a blow when his environment minister resigned during a live broadcast, criticising his government for not doing enough to combat global warming.

19. *Alex Salmond*, a former first minister of Scotland and a leading figure in the movement for Scottish independence, resigned from the Scottish National Party amid claims of sexual misconduct. He said he hoped to rejoin once he had cleared his name.

20. In search of friends

    Theresa May visited three *African countries,* in the first trip by a British prime minister to the continent for five years. Mrs May is trying to strengthen trade, security and diplomatic ties with the region and to avoid losing influence to powers such as France and China, which have also been stepping up their engagement.

21. Emmerson Mnangagwa was sworn in as president of *Zimbabwe* after the Constitutional Court rejected a call by the opposition to throw out the results of a flawed presidential election that had been held in July. The court ruled that the opposition had failed to prove its allegation that the vote was rigged.

22. A judicial commission started hearing evidence of corruption in *South Africa* during the presidency of Jacob Zuma. Testimony at the commission into “state capture” has revealed details of how friends of Mr Zuma allegedly offered positions in his cabinet, including that of minister of finance.

23. *Iran’s* parliament voted to censure President Hassan Rouhani after grilling him on television over the country’s economic problems. Two days earlier parliament sacked the finance minister. Iran is suffering from a collapsing currency and surging inflation, in part the result of America reimposing sanctions after pulling out of an agreement to limit Iran’s nuclear programme earlier this year.

24. The UN released a report accusing the governments of *Yemen*, the *United Arab Emirates* and *Saudi Arabia* of committing war crimes—including rape and torture—during Yemen’s four-year civil war. The report said the Houthi rebels, who are fighting the government and its backers, are to blame for many of the same crimes.

25. All for naught

    A referendum to control corruption in *Colombia* failed to pass because turnout, at less than a third of the electorate, was too low. All seven measures received the support of over 99% of voters who participated in the referendum. They included a three-term limit for legislators and a requirement that elected officials publish their tax returns.

    naught:nothing

    Thank goodness my fears were all for naught.

    tax return:the form on which you have to give information so that your tax can be calculated

26. America said it would re-evaluate its relationship with *El Salvado*r after the Central American country broke diplomatic ties with Taiwan and established them with China. The White House said that El Salvador’s decision would affect “the economic health and security of the entire Americas region”. America also recognises China and does not have formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan.

27. *Chile’s* supreme court ordered the family of Augusto Pinochet, a dictator who ruled from 1973 to 1990, to return part of the money he had stashed in the Virgin Islands. The family must give up 1.6m of a fortune worth 13m.

    stash:to store something secretly or safely somewhere

28. The new power generation

    In *Florida* the party primaries for governor resulted in an interesting matchup for the election. The Republicans chose Ron DeSantis, whose campaign took off when he was endorsed by Mr Trump. The Democrats selected Andrew Gillum, an unabashed progressive who will become the state’s first black governor if he wins in November. 

29. A federal court ruled, once again, that *North Carolina’s* congressional districts have been gerrymandered along partisan lines to favour Republicans. The Supreme Court had sent the case back to the lower courts for consideration. 

    gerrymandering:when politicians change the size and borders of an area before an election, so that one person, group, or party has an unfair advantage

30. *Puerto Rico* officially raised the death toll from last September’s Hurricane Maria to 2,975. That is up from the previous tally of 64, a figure that had always been disputed. The new toll is based on an independent study. 

31. Tributes were paid to *John McCain*, who died from brain cancer aged 81. Mr McCain had represented Arizona in the Senate since 1987. He was probably the most outspoken Republican critic of Mr Trump. The White House got into a flap when its flag was raised to full-staff less than two days after Mr McCain’s death. It was lowered again to half-staff, where it will stay until his funeral, which Mr Trump will not attend. 

    get into a flap:慌乱起来

    half-staff:降半旗