       The race is on to dominate quantum computing（二）
       But the technology may face a winter before it enters its summer

1. It would be easy to dismiss excitement about quantum computing as the start of another hype cycle. But the technology has huge potential, so it needs to be taken seriously. Classical computers think in “bits”, which can have a value of either 0 or 1. Qubits are capable of “superposition”, meaning they can be in both “states” at the same time. Another key quantum concept is “entanglement”. Qubits can be connected, so that operating on one has an impact on the entangled ones, allowing their processing power to be harnessed in parallel.

   dismiss:

   to refuse to consider someone’s idea, opinion etc, because you think it is not serious, true, or important
   拒绝考虑，否定
   The government has dismissed criticisms that the country’s health policy is a mess.
   有人认为国家医疗政策一塌糊涂，政府对这种批评持否认态度。
   It’s an idea that shouldn’t be dismissed out of hand (= dismissed immediately and completely ) .
   这个想法不该马上被全盘否定。
   dismiss sth as sth
   He just laughed and dismissed my proposal as unrealistic.
   他只是笑了笑，认为我的建议不切实际，拒绝考虑。

   harness:

   to control and use the natural force or power of something
   控制[利用]〔自然力等〕

   We can harness the power of the wind to generate electricity.
   我们可以利用风力发电。

2. The first feature makes for computers that have a huge memory. Superposition means that the capacity to store data doubles with each qubit. A 64-qubit computer has enough memory for 18 quintillion numbers. Entanglement then allows operations at lightning speed. Qubits are set up according to an algorithm suitable for a chosen problem; the system applies the rules of quantum mechanics until it reaches a state that represents the answer.

3. Reaching this point will be fiendishly difficult. Although researchers have mastered the art of setting up qubits, getting them to operate flawlessly is still an unsolved problem. Since any outside influence, such as vibration or heat, can make these delicate beasts lose their one-and-zero-ness, or “decohere”, they have to be kept in complete isolation (hence the ultra-low temperatures, which slow atoms’ movement ).

   fiendish:

   extremely difficult or complicated
   极其困难[复杂]的

4. Errors also need to be detected and corrected with the help of many other qubits. Since large numbers of qubits appear unachievable for at least a decade, the question of how quantum computers could be put to practical use had not been on researchers’ minds until recently. This started to change a couple of years ago, when hardware-makers managed to build machines with more than a couple of qubits.

5. Jumping the Q

   IBM led the way in 2016 with a 5-qubit computer and then a 20-qubit one in 2017 (pictured above). Its latest “quantum processing unit” (QPU), which was announced last November, has 50, one qubit more than Intel’s. Both were overtaken in March by Google’s Bristlecone, with 72 qubits. Rigetti, a startup, recently said that it is building a 128-qubit system (although more doesn’t necessarily mean better: some qubits are more error-prone than others and there are no commonly agreed benchmarks to measure their quality). Meanwhile, classical computers have been getting better at simulating quantum ones (of up to around 50 qubits), making it easier to test algorithms and applications.

6. This pace of development recently won the blessing of a luminary of the quantum field, John Preskill of the California Institute of Technology. “Quantum computers with 50-100 qubits may be able to perform tasks which surpass the capabilities of today’s classical digital computers,” he wrote in a paper, calling such devices “noisy intermediate-scale quantum” (or NISQ, with “noisy” meaning that the qubits will remain error-prone for some time to come).

   luminary:

   someone who is very famous or highly respected for their skill at doing something or their knowledge of a particular subject

7. Big firms are trying to work out what quantum computing might mean for them, says Michael Brett of QxBranch, a startup. Chemicals giants such as BASF and DowDuPont want to understand whether the technology could help them “compute” the structures of useful new materials, such as catalysts to reduce the energy used to make fertilisers. Banks, including Barclays and JPMorgan Chase, hope to use them for tasks such as adjusting portfolio risk. Games-makers are also interested in using quantum computing to get videogames to behave more like the real world.

   BASF:巴斯夫（德国化学公司名）

   DowDuPont:陶氏杜邦

8. Since quantum talent is in very short supply, companies often enrol the help of startups, which play the role of consultancies. This brings in money for the new firms and also allows them to acquire the intellectual property to develop real software later. Zapata Computing is typical: spun out of MIT, its PhD-equipped employees develop programs on paper, which “look much like sheet music”, in the words of Christopher Savoie, its boss.

   enrol:吸收成员 (指上述化学、金融和游戏公司获得量子创业公司帮助)

   Zapata Computing:

   We develop quantum computing software and algorithms to solve industry-critical problems. Our offices are based out of The Engine, MIT’s startup incubator in Cambridge, MA. Zapata Computing spun out of Harvard University in 2017.

9. Quantum harvest

   The field has been well-funded by venture capitalists, with capital inflows reaching nearly $250m last year. Tech firms, too, are putting in resources. IBM has been working in the area longest. Arvind Krishna, global director of its research arm, compares its efforts to how IBM created a market for mainframe computers in the 1960s. It started quantum research in the 1970s; in 2016 it put its 5-qubit quantum computer online so others could use it and start writing programs (something it calls Q Experience). It has since designed tools for programmers, helped MIT to develop online quantum classes and created a network of firms as well as other universities to explore practical applications.