1. As lethal fires, heatwaves and drought spread across the northern hemisphere, analysis suggests that Europe’s sweltering summer would have been less than half as likely were it not for human-induced climate change. Despite efforts to curb global warming, greenhouse-gas emissions are rising. Investments in oil and gas are up; in renewables they have stalled. It is tempting to think these are temporary setbacks—that people, with their instinct for self-preservation, will muddle through to victory over climate change. In fact, mankind is losing the war.

   lethal：致命的，致死的

   swelter：使闷热，使中暑

   were it not for：（与事实相对的假定）若不是...的话

   Europe’s sweltering summer would have been less than half as likely were it not for human-induced climate change：若不是人类诱发的气候改变，欧洲的闷热夏季可能还不到一半。

   muddle through：终于应付过去，混过去

   

2. Diverging from other central banks that have moved to unwind their stimulus programmes, the Bank of Japan said it was committed to keeping interest rates “extremely low” for the foreseeable future, and pledged to continue buying bonds. Haruhiko Kuroda, the central bank’s governor, said the forward guidance should “counter speculation… that the bank is heading towards an early exit or an increase in rates”. 

   diverge：if similar things diverge, they develop in different ways and so are no longer similar
   朝不同方向演变；分化
   The two species diverged millions of years ago.
   这两个物种从数百万年前开始朝不同方向演变。
   Global growth rates are diverging markedly.
   世界各地的增长率在发生明显的分化

   speculation：推测

   

3. The Federal Reserve kept its benchmark interest rate on hold at its policy meeting. But with the American economy growing by an annualised rate of 4.1% in the second quarter, its best performance since the middle of 2014, the Fed is widely expected to increase rates in September. The Bank of England raised its main rate for the first time since November (and only the second time since 2007) by a quarter of a percentage point, to 0.75%.

   keep sth. on hold：保持不变

   

4. Turkey’s central bank raised its forecast for the country’s inflation rate this year to 13.4%, from the 8.4% it had predicted in April. A weak lira has pushed up prices, but the central bank has not raised interest rates by much in response.

   raise interest rates by much：大幅提高利率

   

5. GDP in the euro zone expanded by 0.3% in the second quarter compared with the previous three months. That was the slowest rate of growth by that measure in two years, raising concerns that the prospect of an escalating trade war with America might be hurting the region’s exports.

    

6. Political interference

   Facebook said that it had closed down several disinformation accounts on its sites that were set up to disrupt the mid-term elections. Although smaller in scale than the attempt to influence the presidential election in 2016, it is thought that this was a similar Russian campaign to sow discord. However, the latest attack was more sophisticated, using virtual private networks to try to avoid detection.

   disinformation：虚假信息

   sow discord：挑拨离间，搬弄是非

   

7. Twitter’s share price slumped after it reported that the number of monthly active users to its platform had fallen by 1m in the second quarter compared with the previous three months. And Netflix’s share price took another hammering; it recently reported a shortfall in adding new subscribers. This came after Facebook took a drubbing in the markets when it revealed similarly disappointing user growth. 

   By contrast, Apple beat expectations with its quarterly earnings report. Revenue was up by 17% compared with the same three months last year, to 53.3bn, boosted by the higher price it charges for the iPhone X (sales of total iPhone units only increased by 1%). Net profit rose by a third, to $11.5bn.

   slump，take another hammering，take a drubbing：描述股价受挫

   

8. Bumper Profit

   After years of retrenchment following the Deepwater Horizon disaster, BP reported a hefty jump in headline profit for the second quarter, to 2.8bn. The energy giant is increasing its dividend for the first time in four years. It is also undertaking its biggest acquisition in two decades by agreeing to buy BHP’s shale assets in America for $10.5bn.

   retrenchment：节省，整顿，紧缩

   hefty：强有力的，非常

   headline profit：整体利润

   undertake：to accept that you are responsible for a piece of work, and start to do it
   承担；着手做〔某事〕
   undertake a task/a project/research/a study etc
   Dr Johnson undertook the task of writing a comprehensive English dictionary.
   约翰逊博士担负起编写一本综合性英语词典的工作。

   

9. With its income buoyed by higher commodity prices, Rio Tinto announced a package of returns to shareholders worth 7.2bn. The mining company reported an underlying half-year profit of $4.4bn. 

   buoy：提振，鼓励，支撑

   

10. Fidelity surprised its rivals by becoming the first big investment firm to launch new index-tracking stock funds with no fees for investors. It also slashed the charges on its existing funds. The announcement underscores fee competition in the industry as it moves away from a reliance on the expertise of stock-pickers towards low-cost, index-based funds. 

   existing funds：现有基金

   move away from A. towards B. ：从A转向B

   

11. BMW raised the price of sport-utility vehicles it sells in China to offset some of the cost of the retaliatory tariffs that China imposed on American car imports. BMW makes its SUV models for export to the country at a factory in South Carolina, though it is ramping up production in China. Tesla, which has also raised the price of its cars in China, reported a quarterly loss of $717.5m. But it pleased investors by burning less cash than had been expected and by promising to turn a profit later this year. 

    sport-utility vehicle：越野车

    ramp up：产能提升

    

12. Time to put your phone down

    A range of tools were unveiled for the Facebook and Instagram platforms that will enable users to limit the time they spend engrossed on their apps. Concerns about addiction to social media are on the rise; surveys have revealed that on average people check their phones 50 times a day. The tools require a degree of discipline by users to be effective. But if users had that discipline, perhaps they would not need time-limiting tools.

    engrossed：全神贯注的，专心致志的