       How one family endured the horrors of Russian history

1. RUSSIA demands to be written about. Journalists posted to Frankfurt or Brussels rarely take a year off to tell the country’s back-story over 350 pages, but Moscow correspondents find the prospect hard to resist. Conor O’Clery of the Irish Times is the latest to grapple with Russia’s tumultuous recent past, but he does it in an unusual way. “The Shoemaker and His Daughter” is the story of his wife’s relatives, and how they survived the savagery of the Russian 20th century—the wars, the reforms, the crashes, the revolutions.

   tumultuous:

   1).
   full of activity, confusion, or violence
   混乱的，骚乱的，乱哄哄的
   the tumultuous years of the Civil War 内战的动荡年代
   2).
   very loud because people are happy and excited
   嘈杂的，吵闹的，喧哗的
   He received a tumultuous welcome.
   他受到了热烈欢迎。
   tumultuous applause 热烈的掌声

2. Mr O’Clery is not the first person to recount Russia’s history through the microcosm of individual lives, but his unique access to his in-laws gives him material other writers have lacked, which in turn fills his book with a warmth and generosity that are captivating. He opens with a winter trip to Transylvania with his wife’s mother, on a hunt for her father’s grave. Lieutenant Nerses Gukasyan was killed in the second world war, when she was five; it was not until 2002 that she discovered where exactly he had been buried. After a long trek into snowy forests, they find him at last: one of 1,236 Soviet servicemen lying together beneath a concrete obelisk.

   microcosm:

   a small group, society, or place that has the same qualities as a much larger one
   微观世界，缩影
   [+ of]
   New York’s mix of people is a microcosm of America.
   纽约多元化的人口组成是美国社会的缩影。
   in microcosm
   All the problems of society can be seen here in microcosm.
   所有社会问题在这里都有它的缩影

   captivate:

   to attract someone very much, and hold their attention
   使着迷，迷住，吸引
   be captivated by sb/sth
   He was captivated by her beauty.
   他被她的美貌迷住了。

   trek:

   a long and difficult journey, made especially on foot as an adventure

   〔尤指徒步的〕艰苦长途旅行

   obelisk:

   a tall pointed stone pillar, built to remind people of an event or of someone who has died
   方尖碑，方尖塔

3. As a scene-setter, the vignette is apposite. Individual loss meets official indifference; personal sacrifice meets the immensity of history. After this opening Mr O’Clery withdraws, leaving the stage to his in-laws, and a tale made extraordinary by its sheer unremarkableness. Every Russian family, no matter how apparently ordinary, has lived through enough upheavals to fill a book. What befell Mr O’Clery’s relatives also happened to millions of others, in an age of collective suffering and survival that defies comprehension.

   vignette:

   1).
   a short description in a book or play showing the typical features of a person or situation
   〔书或剧本中对人物或场景的〕简介
   2).
   a small picture or design at the beginning or end of a book or chapter
   〔书或章节开篇或结尾处的〕小装饰图案，花饰

   apposite:

   suitable to what is happening or being discussed

   适当的，恰当的，贴切的

   His observations are, indeed, apposite to the present discussion. 

   他的评论的确切合当前的讨论。

   immensity:

   used to emphasize the great size of something, especially something that cannot be measured
   浩瀚无际
   [+ of]
   the immensity of outer space 外太空的浩瀚无垠

   upheaval:

   a very big change that often causes problems
   〔往往会带来问题的〕激变，剧变；动乱
   political upheaval 政治剧变
   Moving house is a major upheaval. 搬家很折腾。

4. The story proper begins in Nagorno-Karabakh, where the Gukasyan family, ethnic Armenians, do well in the Communist Party; it moves on to Grozny, in Chechnya, where they hold a secure place in the Soviet middle class, thanks to their ideological reliability, sobriety and hard work. Yet whenever they look like finally making a success of themselves, their lives are invariably shattered. An unfortunate decision to sell a car outside the official channels leads to a prison term, and relocation to Siberia to escape the shame. Through dedication and focus the family re-establishes itself, but it still takes Mr O’Clery’s father-in-law—the shoemaker of the title—13 years to get back in a position where he can own a car again.

   invariably:

   if something invariably happens or is invariably true, it always happens or is true
   始终不变地；总是
   It invariably rains when I go there.
   我每次去那儿都下雨。
   The security guards were invariably ex-servicemen.
   保安人员毫无例外地都是退伍军人。

5. This is not a book about heroic dissidents or murderous fanatics, but about everyday people trying to navigate a system that frustrates them yet provides them with priceless opportunities. “In the Siberia of the 1980s, a city-dweller can spend the day in a mad search for sausage and the evening listening to a sublime piano recital by Svyatoslav Richter,” Mr O’Clery writes. Then the family’s lives are destroyed once more, when their hard-earned savings are inflated to nothing by post-Soviet “shock therapy”, and thugs arise to fill the space vacated by the party.

   sublime:

   something that is sublime is so good or beautiful that it affects you deeply
   卓越的，超群的；令人赞叹的
   The view was sublime.
   景色十分迷人。
   Her songs are a sublime fusion of pop and Brazilian music.
   她的歌曲是流行乐和巴西音乐的巧妙融合。

   piano recital:钢琴独奏会

6. “The Shoemaker and His Daughter” does not purport to take readers inside Josef Stalin’s mind, nor to reveal the mysteries of Vladimir Putin’s modern kleptocracy, but it will give them a new respect for the people who have endured the Kremlin’s many experiments. It is enchantingly written, thoughtfully structured and a model for all the other journalists who pass through Moscow.

   purport:

   to claim to be or do something, even if this is not true
   声称是…，据称是…，像是…
   be purported to be sth
   The document is purported to be 300 years old.
   这份文献据称已有300年历史。

   enchanting:

   very pleasant or attractive
   令人愉悦的；令人陶醉的；迷人的
   an enchanting place 迷人的地方
   an enchanting story 令人陶醉的故事
   The girl looked enchanting in a pale blue dress.
   那个孩子穿着浅蓝色连衣裙，十分可爱。