Vannevar Bush

1. Vannevar Bush (/væˈniːvɑːr/ van-NEE-var; 11 March 1890 – 28 June 1974) was an American engineer, inventor and science administrator, who during World War II headed the U.S. Office of Scientific Research and Development (OSRD), through which almost all wartime military R&D was carried out, including important developments in radar and the initiation and early administration of the Manhattan Project. He emphasized the importance of scientific research to national security and economic well-being, and was chiefly responsible for the movement that led to the creation of the National Science Foundation.

2. Bush joined the Department of Electrical Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1919, and founded the company now known as Raytheon in 1922. Bush became vice president of MIT and dean of the MIT School of Engineering in 1932, and president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington in 1938.

3. During his career, Bush invented and patented a string of inventions. He is known particularly for his engineering work on analog computers, and for the memex. Starting in 1927, Bush constructed a differential analyzer, an analog computer with some digital components that could solve differential equations with as many as 18 independent variables. An offshoot of the work at MIT by Bush and others was the beginning of digital circuit design theory. The memex, which he began developing in the 1930s, was a hypothetical adjustable microfilm viewer with a structure analogous to that of hypertext. The memex and Bush's 1945 essay "As We May Think" influenced generations of computer scientists, who drew inspiration from his vision of the future.

   analog:模拟

   memex:麦克斯存储器

4. Bush was appointed to the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) in 1938, and soon became its chairman. As chairman of the National Defense Research Committee (NDRC), and later director of OSRD, Bush coordinated the activities of some six thousand leading American scientists in the application of science to warfare. Bush was a well-known policymaker and public intellectual during World War II, when he was in effect the first presidential science advisor. As head of NDRC and OSRD, he initiated the Manhattan Project, and ensured that it received top priority from the highest levels of government. In Science, The Endless Frontier, his 1945 report to the President of the United States, Bush called for an expansion of government support for science, and he pressed for the creation of the National Science Foundation.

5. Early life and work

   Vannevar Bush was born in Everett, Massachusetts, on 11 March 1890, the third child and only son of Perry Bush, the local Universalist pastor, and his wife Emma Linwood (née Paine). He had two older sisters, Edith and Reba. He was named after John Vannevar, an old friend of the family who had attended Tufts College with Perry. The family moved to Chelsea, Massachusetts, in 1892, and Bush graduated from Chelsea High School in 1909.

6. He then attended Tufts, like his father before him. A popular student, he was vice president of his sophomore class, and president of his junior class. During his senior year, he managed the football team. He became a member of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, and dated Phoebe Clara Davis, who also came from Chelsea. Tufts allowed students to gain a master's degree in four years simultaneously with a bachelor's degree. For his master's thesis, Bush invented and patented a "profile tracer". This was a mapping device for assisting surveyors that looked like a lawn mower. It had two bicycle wheels, and a pen that plotted the terrain over which it traveled. It was the first of a string of inventions. On graduation in 1913 he received both bachelor of science and master of science degrees.

7. After graduation, Bush worked at General Electric (GE) in Schenectady, New York, for 14 a week. As a "test man", his job was to assess equipment to ensure that it was safe. He transferred to GE's plant in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, to work on high voltage transformers, but after a fire broke out at the plant, Bush and the other test men were suspended. He returned to Tufts in October 1914 to teach mathematics, and spent the 1915 summer break working at the Brooklyn Navy Yard as an electrical inspector. Bush was awarded a $1,500 scholarship to study at Clark University as a doctoral student of Arthur Gordon Webster, but Webster wanted Bush to study acoustics. Bush preferred to quit rather than study a subject that did not interest him.

8. Bush subsequently enrolled in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) electrical engineering program. Spurred by the need for enough financial security to marry, he submitted his thesis, entitled Oscillating-Current Circuits: An Extension of the Theory of Generalized Angular Velocities, with Applications to the Coupled Circuit and the Artificial Transmission Line, in April 1916. His adviser, Arthur Edwin Kennelly, tried to demand more work from him, but Bush refused, and Kennelly was overruled by the department chairman; Bush received his doctorate in engineering jointly from MIT and Harvard University. He married Phoebe in August 1916. They had two sons: Richard Davis Bush and John Hathaway Bush.

9. Bush accepted a job with Tufts, where he became involved with the American Radio and Research Corporation (AMRAD), which began broadcasting music from the campus on 8 March 1916. The station owner, Harold Power, hired him to run the company's laboratory, at a salary greater than that which Bush drew from Tufts. In 1917, following the United States' entry into World War I, he went to work with the National Research Council. He attempted to develop a means of detecting submarines by measuring the disturbance in the Earth's magnetic field. His device worked as designed, but only from a wooden ship; attempts to get it to work on a metal ship such as a destroyer failed.

10. Bush left Tufts in 1919, although he remained employed by AMRAD, and joined the Department of Electrical Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he worked under Dugald C. Jackson. In 1922, he collaborated with fellow MIT professor William H. Timbie on Principles of Electrical Engineering, an introductory textbook. AMRAD's lucrative contracts from World War I had been cancelled, and Bush attempted to reverse the company's fortunes by developing a thermostatic switch invented by Al Spencer, an AMRAD technician, on his own time. AMRAD's management was not interested in the device, but had no objection to its sale. Bush found backing from Laurence K. Marshall and Richard S. Aldrich to create the Spencer Thermostat Company, which hired Bush as a consultant. The new company soon had revenues in excess of a million dollars. It merged with General Plate Company to form Metals & Controls Corporation in 1931, and with Texas Instruments in 1959. Texas Instruments sold it to Bain Capital in 2006, and it became a separate company again as Sensata Technologies in 2010.

11. In 1924, Bush and Marshall teamed up with physicist Charles G. Smith, who had invented a device called the S-tube. This enabled radios, which had previously required two different types of batteries, to operate from mains power. Marshall raised $25,000 to set up the American Appliance Company on 7 July 1922, to market the invention, with Bush and Smith among its five directors. The venture made Bush wealthy, and the company, now known as Raytheon, ultimately became a large electronics company and defense contractor.

12. Starting in 1927, Bush constructed a differential analyzer, an analog computer that could solve differential equations with as many as 18 independent variables. This invention arose from previous work performed by Herbert R. Stewart, one of Bush's masters students, who at Bush's suggestion created the integraph, a device for solving first-order differential equations, in 1925. Another student, Harold Hazen, proposed extending the device to handle second-order differential equations. Bush immediately realized the potential of such an invention, for these were much more difficult to solve, but also quite common in physics. Under Bush's supervision, Hazen was able to construct the differential analyzer, a table-like array of shafts and pens that mechanically simulated and plotted the desired equation. Unlike earlier designs that were purely mechanical, the differential analyzer had both electrical and mechanical components. Among the engineers who made use of the differential analyzer was General Electric's Edith Clarke, who used it to solve problems relating to electric power transmission. For developing the differential analyzer, Bush was awarded the Franklin Institute's Louis E. Levy Medal in 1928.

13. Bush taught circuit theory and operational calculus according to the methods of Oliver Heaviside while Samuel Wesley Stratton was President of MIT. When Harold Jeffreys in Cambridge, England, offered his mathematical treatment in Operational Methods in Mathematical Physics (1927), Bush responded with his textbook Operational Circuit Analysis (1929) for use instructing future electrical engineers. 



    Busiess this week

14. Greece exited its third and final bail-out programme, bringing an end to eight years of economic oversight by the European Union and the IMF. Other countries in the euro zone were also rescued during the debt crisis, but none compared to Greece, which received €326bn ($378bn) in total emergency assistance. To service its huge debt pile, Greece has to achieve primary-budget surpluses far into the future, which will curb state spending for years to come.

    rescue:营救，援救

15. Qatar’s central bank signed a $3bn currency-swap arrangement with Turkey to provide “liquidity and support for financial stability”. The Turkish lira has taken a battering in recent weeks, in part because of a political spat with America that has resulted in sanctions on Turkish officials.

16. The Saudi government denied a report that the proposed IPO of Aramco, the kingdom’s state-controlled oil company, has been shelved, insisting that it would go ahead when the conditions are right. Investors are losing faith in that commitment. The government has made little progress in bringing what would be the world’s biggest-ever IPO to market ever since the plan was first revealed in early 2016 and it is looking at other ways to boost state coffers. See article. 

    coffer:

    the money that an organization, government etc has available to spend
    〔机构、政府等的〕资金
    The money from the exhibition should swell the hospital’s coffers a little.
    展览收入应该能让医院的资金略有增加。

17. Aiming high

    Target, an American retailer that two years ago was all but written off amid a slump in revenue and customers, reported its strongest growth in quarterly sales in 13 years. Customer traffic grew by 6.4% compared with the same period last year; digital sales soared by 41%. The company has restructured its business and redesigned its stores, but, like other retailers, it is also profiting from America’s robust economy.

18. Australia banned Huawei and ZTE, two Chinese makers of telecoms equipment, from participating in the country’s roll-out of 5G networks. Both companies also face severe restrictions in America based on concerns that their ties to the Chinese government pose a threat to national security, concerns which the companies say are unfounded.

    roll-out:

    an occasion when a new product is made available for people to buy or use
    〔新产品的〕推出市场

19. Microsoft took control, through a court order, of six internet domains that were mimicking websites for the American Senate and two conservative think-tanks. The domains were created by a group, sometimes known as Fancy Bear, that is associated with the Russian government. One of the think-tanks, the Hudson Institute, has often shone a spotlight on Russian corruption. In a separate crackdown on political-misinformation campaigns, Facebook removed fake pages, groups and accounts originating from Iran and Russia that had targeted users in Latin America, Britain, the Middle East and the United States.

20. Getting busy with the fizzy

    PepsiCo agreed to buy SodaStream for $3.2bn, continuing its expansion into healthier soft-drink products. SodaStream’s water-carbonating machines, with accompanying flavours, were popular in Britain during the 1970s and 1980s. It was bought by an Israeli company in 1998 and branded as a wholesome alternative to sugary drinks.

21. Slack was valued at $7.1bn following its latest round of fundraising, up by 40% from its previous valuation nearly a year ago. The office messaging app is used by 8m people on a daily basis.

22. Following criticism from Chinese state media for not doing enough to delete banned content, Apple pulled apps from its App Store in China that offer gambling services. Betting apps are illegal in China.

23. In its first earnings report since going public in July, Xiaomi said revenue had increased by 68% in the second quarter, to 45bn yuan ($6.6bn), helping it turn a net profit of 14.6bn yuan. The Chinese smartphone-maker is expanding overseas; international sales now account for over a third of revenues and it has overtaken Samsung to become India’s biggest seller of smartphones. Its smart-devices business is also looking perky; sales of smart-TVs were up by 350%.

    perky:

    confident, happy, and active
    自信而愉快的；活泼的，生气勃勃的

24. Air France-KLM found a new chief executive. The airline said that Ben Smith would take up the position, a job that has been vacant since May after the sudden departure of Jean-Marc Janaillac amid a protracted pay dispute with unions. Mr Smith, a Canadian, is the first non-Frenchman to run Air France. French unions balked at his appointment and threatened strike action.

    protracted:

    used to describe something that continues for a long time, especially if it takes longer than usual, necessary, or expected

    长时间的；旷日持久的

    protracted negotiations/discussions/debate etc
    the expense of a protracted legal battle
    一场持久的官司战的费用

    balk:

    to stop someone or something from getting or achieving what they want

    阻止，妨碍

25. A game of rounders

    The S&P 500 index chalked up 3,453 days without entering bear territory, defined as a drop of at least 20%. Many declared it a record for a stockmarket bull run. Others questioned that, maintaining that the market stayed just out of bear territory in 1990—and that the 4,494 days from December 1987 to March 2000 constitute the true record-holder.

    chalk up:刷新纪录