       The race is on to dominate quantum computing
       But the technology may face a winter before it enters its summer

1. COMPUTING was probably always destined to be electronic. Yet even as late as the 1930s, this was not entirely clear. Early in that decade Vannevar Bush, an American engineer, built a mechanical computer with gears, pulleys and shafts rotated by electric motors. His “Differential Analyser”, which took up a small room, could solve equations with up to 18 variables.

   pulley:

   a piece of equipment consisting of a wheel over which a rope or chain is pulled to lift heavy things

   shaft:

   a thin long piece of metal in an engine or machine, that turns and passes on power or movement to another part of the machine
   〔机器的〕轴；传动轴
   a drive shaft 驱动轴

   Differential:微分

2. Quantum computing, which holds the promise of outclassing even the world’s fastest supercomputers, at least for certain types of problems, is now at a similar stage in its development. Prototypes are functioning but it is not clear what shape the machines will eventually take. One big question, for example, is whether “qubits”, which are the quantum equivalent of transistors, will live in tiny loops of superconducting wire cooled to ultra-low temperatures, be ions trapped in magnetic fields or rely on some other technology.

   outclass:远高于，远胜于

   superconducting:超导的

   ion:[化学]离子

3. Even as quantum computers inch forward, a lively ecosystem of software startups has sprung up. Big corporations, venture capitalists and national governments are investing, providing the money for a growing number of new firms. “The Quantum Computing Report”, a website, recently listed more than 70 of them, many of which aim to write software for the new machines (more than a third of them have names starting with Q).

   inch:使缓慢移动

4. This fledgling industry is seeing the beginnings of a battle between tech giants such as Google, IBM and Microsoft, which are vying with each other to attract developers onto their respective quantum platforms. Some insiders have already started to warn that the sector is getting ahead of itself, predicting a “quantum winter” brought on by unfulfilled promise.

   vie:

   to compete very hard with someone in order to get something
   〔与某人〕竞争
   [+ with]
   There are at least twenty restaurants vying with each other for custom.
   至少有20家餐馆在互相争抢生意。
   vie to do sth
   All the photographers vied to get the best pictures.
   所有的摄影师都争先恐后，想拍到最好的照片。

