​       A new space probe will study the sun’s corona and the solar wind

1. UNTIL February, when the first of SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy lifters was launched, the world’s most powerful rocket was the Delta IV Heavy. On August 11th, if all goes according to plan, one of these will take off from Cape Canaveral carrying a craft called the Parker Solar Probe.

   Falcon Heavy lifter:猎鹰重型火箭

   craft:航天器

   

2. This probe, as its name suggests, is designed to get close to the sun. The rules of orbital mechanics mean that requires a lot of energy. Hence the need for a launcher as powerful as the Delta IV Heavy. A combination of rocket thrust and a series of gravitational “assists” from Venus will put the probe in a long, looping solar orbit. At its closest, it will fly within 6m kilometres of the nearest thing the sun has to a surface—the top of the layer known as the photosphere, which the naked eye perceives as the solar disc. That will bring it 85% closer to the photosphere than Mercury, the planet closest to the sun, ever gets.

   photosphere:太阳光球层

   

3. This path will take it through the corona, a shell of superhot plasma that surrounds the photosphere and which is visible to the naked eye only during a total solar eclipse. Flying through the corona is no easy task. Even in Earth’s comparatively distant orbit, sunlight is powerful enough to mean spacecraft must have beefy cooling systems. Parker will endure sunlight more than 450 times as intense. The craft will therefore be shielded by a special insulator—a slab of carbon-composite more than 11cm thick. One advantage of its close encounters with the sun is that there will be no shortage of solar power to run its instruments. But its solar panels will have to be cooled continuously by circulating water, the waste heat then radiated into space.

   corona :日冕

   plasma :等离子体

   beefy :健壮的，结实的

   slab:厚板，平板

   circulate:

   1).
   [I,T] to move around within a system, or to make something do this
   （使）循环
   Swimming helps to get the blood circulating through the muscles.
   游泳有助于肌肉的血液循环。
   Ceiling fans circulated warm air around the room.
   吊扇使暖空气在房间里循环。
   2).
   [I] if information, facts, ideas etc circulate, they become known by many people
   流传；传播；散布
   Rumours began circulating that the Prime Minister was seriously ill.
   谣言开始流传，说首相病情严重。
   3).
   [T] to send goods, information etc to people
   发送；传播
   The group circulated petitions calling for a federal law to ban handguns.
   该团体派发要求联邦法律禁用手枪的请愿书。
   4).
   [I] to talk to a lot of different people in a group, especially at a party
   〔尤指在聚会上〕应酬，来回周旋

   

4. The Parker Space Probe is named after Eugene Parker, an American astrophysicist, who studied the nature of the corona, and also of the solar wind (the steady stream of charged particles released by the corona). Both are in his robotic namesake’s sights.

   astrophysicist :天体物理学家

   charged particle:电离子

   in his robotic namesake’s sights:在他的机器人的视野里

   Delhi was in his sights. 
   现在德里进入了他的视野.

   

5. Though much investigated, neither corona nor wind is well understood. The sun is powered by nuclear fusion, a result of the crushing pressures deep in its core. Here, temperatures exceed 15m degrees. Farther out, they are lower. The photosphere is a comparatively balmy 5,400°C. The corona, though, bucks this trend. The wispy plasma of which it is composed varies in temperature from 1m to 3m degrees.

   nuclear fusion:核聚变

   balmy:

   balmy air, weather etc is warm and pleasant

   〔空气、天气等〕温和的，宜人的

   buck:

   oppose or resist (something that seems oppressive or inevitable).

   the shares bucked the market trend

   

6. Exactly why remains a matter of debate. The laws of thermodynamics dictate that heat cannot flow from a cold region to a hot one, so whatever is doing the heating must rely on something more complicated than simple radiation or convection. Researchers have fingered two separate processes, says Andrew Coates, a heliophysicist at University College London.

   Exactly why remains a matter of debate.:确切的原因仍然是一个争论的问题

   convection :对流，传送

   

7. One involves solar flares. These are magnetically driven eruptions of material from the sun’s surface. The magnetic fields involved snap and twist into new configurations in a process called magnetic reconnection. That releases energy, which ends up in the corona. But not enough to account, by itself, for the corona’s scorching temperatures. The balance, says Dr Coates, is thought to come from sound waves that start in the solar depths and deposit energy in the sun’s outer layers.

   flare:耀斑

   scorch:烧焦

   

8. The main mystery of the solar wind that the Parker probe will study is why it blows so fast. By the time it leaves the sun, it is travelling in excess of 400km per second. This is faster than the speed of sound in the thin soup of particles known as the heliosphere that suffuses the solar system. Exactly how the solar wind attains such speeds is not understood, but once again the process seems to occur in the corona.

   heliosphere :日光层

   

   Seals’ whiskers provide a model for the latest submarine detectors
   They can detect the trails of things long passed by

9. VISION is useless in murky water. To deal with that deficiency dolphins have evolved sonar. They emit clicks and interpret the echoes to find their prey. But not all marine mammals are so equipped. Seals, for instance, have no sonar, yet that does not stop them finding distant meals as effectively as dolphins can. This puzzled researchers for years, until they discovered that the secret lies in the animals’ whiskers—which they are now trying to copy, to develop novel underwater sensors.

   vision:视力

   murky:浑浊的，朦胧的

   dolphin:海豚

   prey:捕食，被捕食的动物

   whisker:触须，腮须

   

10. An object moving through water leaves a series of miniature whirlpools in its wake. This trail is called a Karman vortex street. And that is what seals, using their whiskers, follow. As Michael Triantafyllou of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) observes, “You can set a harbour seal loose to follow a towed fish, and even 30 seconds later they will be able to follow the exact track, whether it’s straight or zigzag or circular.”

   whirlpool:旋涡

   vortex:

   a mass of wind or water that spins quickly and pulls things into its centre

   旋风；漩涡

   

11. Seals can pick up the trail of fish such as herring when blindfolded and wearing earmuffs. Cover their whiskers, though, and supper eludes them. The bases of seal whiskers are rich in nerve cells, making them as sensitive as human fingertips. But that is not all there is to it. Under a microscope, seal whiskers are not circular when sliced through, as might naively be expected. Instead, they have an oval cross-section. Moreover, those whiskers’ surfaces have an elaborate undulating geometry.

    herring:鲱鱼，青鱼

    blindfold:蒙住...的眼镜

    earmuff:耳罩

    elude:

    to escape from someone or something, especially by tricking them

    〔机敏地〕逃避，躲避

    if something that you want eludes you, you fail to find or achieve it

    使找不到，使错过

    She took the exam again, but again success eluded her. 

    她再次参加了考试，可还是没有及格。

    undulate:
    to move or be shaped like waves that are rising and falling
    起伏，波动
    undulating hills 绵延起伏的山峦

    geometry:几何形状