​       Tesla's real big news

1. “I think it’s probably time to let the cat out of the bag because the cat’s going to come out of the bag anyway.”—Elon Musk, August 2, 2018 

   Overlooked in all the hoopla last week around Elon Musk’s apology, astronaut flights announced for his SpaceX business, and Tesla’s improving rates of production was a little news about silicon. Tesla has been relying on chips from Nvidia to power its autopilot and self-driving car features, specifically Nvidia’s PX2 platform. But last week, Musk “let the cat out of the bag” about the carmaker’s own chip efforts . Nvidia is out, to be replaced in all Teslas with a chip developed internally. “I’m a big fan of Nvidia, they do great stuff,” Musk noted before giving them the axe.

   overlook：

   if a house, room etc overlooks something, it has a view of it, usually from above
   俯视，俯瞰
   Our room overlooks the ocean.
   我们的房间可以俯视大海。

   hoopla：

   excitement about something which attracts a lot of public attention
   喧闹，沸沸扬扬
   all the hoopla that surrounded the trial
   围绕这次审判的纷纷议论

   autopilot ：自动驾驶仪

   axe：

   a tool with a heavy metal blade on the end of a long handle, used to cut down trees or split pieces of wood

   斧头，长柄斧

   

2. There are several angles of interest. It almost seems like there is a small group of genius chip designers who travel the world making the magic happen at one company after another. For one, take the press-shy silicon architect Jim Keller. Keller helped design AMD’s hit Athlon processor in the 1990s, went to Apple to build the A4 and A5 chips for iPhones and iPads, and then returned to AMD to work on the Ryzen CPU before joining Tesla in 2016. Lately, he’s hopscotched to Intel . Keller doesn’t talk to reporters much. (I got no response to my entreaties last year when I was writing about AMD.) But he did give an interview to the chip-focused news site Anandtech last month. “I kind of work and focus more on the next really interesting problem,” Keller explained.

   entreaty：

   a serious request in which you ask someone to do something for you
   恳求；乞求

   

3. Another really interesting problem may be what this development portends for the future revenues of chipmakers like Nvidia, Intel, and AMD that are counting on the nascent self-driving car market to demand a lot of their top-end, most expensive products. Musk said Tesla’s home grown solution was 10 times faster than Nvidia’s at the same cost. Nvidia, though, has announced its own next-gen chip for autonomous driving called Pegasus, also with 10 times better performance. Perhaps there are other advantages to Tesla’s chips as well, such as lower cost or energy consumption. In any event, Wall Street shrugged off the news and Nvidia shares were unchanged last week (and are still up 30% this year).

   portend ：

   to be a sign that something is going to happen, especially something bad
   预示〔尤指不祥之事〕，为…的凶兆
   strange events that portend disaster
   预示着灾难的奇怪事件

   nascent：

   coming into existence or starting to develop
   初生的，新生的；开始发展的
   the country’s nascent democracy
   该国新生的民主
   their nascent industries
   他们的新兴行业	

   

4. Finally, I think this move adds another commonality on the Steve Jobs-Elon Musk nexus. Jobs famously wanted command over all the key ingredients of Apple’s products. “I’ve always wanted to own and control the primary technology in everything we do,” he explained back 2004. Seems like Musk may be following that advice. 

   commonality ：公共，共性

   nexus ：

   a connection or network of connections between a number of people, things, or ideas
   〔人、事物或思想之间的〕关系，关联，联系，联结
   [+ of]
   a nexus of social relationships
   错综复杂的社会关系

   ingredient ：

   a quality you need to achieve something

   〔完成某事的〕要素，因素
   John has all the ingredients of a great player.
   约翰具备一个伟大运动员的一切素质。
   Investment in new product development is an essential ingredient of corporate success.
   注入资金开发新产品是公司成功的重要因素。

   ​                                                                                                                           by Aaron Pressman

   

   Asia’s last dog-racing track closes

5. THE kennels reeked of excrement. The dogs inside looked weak. Many were suffering from visible injuries. Such was the scene that greeted Zoe Tang at the Canidrome, a greyhound-racing stadium in Macau, an autonomous region of China, on the morning of July 21st. The evening before, its billionaire boss had left behind all 533 race dogs owing to the expiry of the venue’s operating concession, forcing the authorities to step in to mind them. Since then Ms Tang (pictured), who works for Anima, a local animal-welfare organisation, has been recruiting volunteers to help feed, walk and bathe the forsaken canines. Hundreds of people have turned up daily, far more than had been betting on the races.

   kennel：养狗场

   expiry：满期

   concession ：特许权

   forsaken：被抛弃的

   

6. The Canidrome is one of the last vestiges of a grittier, seedier Macau. The greyhound track opened in 1963 (after a false start in the 1930s), when Macau was a Portuguese colony, and drew crowds of day-trippers from Hong Kong. Owned by the family of Stanley Ho, who once enjoyed a stranglehold on local gambling concessions, it was the last place in Asia where punters could wager legally on dog racing. But in the new Macau, with its glitzy casinos, it had lost its lustre. Attendance dwindled to just dozens a day.

   vestige：遗迹，残余

   gritty：

   showing a difficult or unpleasant situation as it really is
   〔对困难处境等的描写〕逼真的，活生生的
   Billingham’s pictures have a gritty realism which can be almost upsetting.
   Billingham的照片展现活生生的现实，几乎达到令人揪心的程度。

   seedy：

   a seedy person or place looks dirty or poor, and is often connected with illegal or immoral activities
   〔人〕肮脏的；〔地方〕乌烟瘴气的；不正派的

   day-tripper ：一日游游客

   punter：

   informal someone who bet's on the result of a horse race etc
   〔赛马等的〕赌徒

   wager ：

   to agree to win or lose an amount of money on the result of something such as a race
   押〔赌注〕，打赌
   SYN gamble 
   wager sth on sth
   Stipes wagered all his money on an unknown horse.
   斯蒂普斯把他所有的钱都押在一匹不出名的马上。

   lustre ：光泽，光彩

   Attendance：出席人数

   

7. Animal-rights groups had urged the track be closed. They alleged that greyhounds were put down if they failed repeatedly to win races. In 2011 the head of Macau’s animal-control division said that 30 dogs a month were being killed. Angela Leong, wife of Mr Ho, boss of the Canidrome and an elected lawmaker, denied any cruelty. She said her charges were the “happiest dogs in the world”.

   Macau’s government had threatened to fine Ms Leong up to 100,000 patacas ($12,330) for each abandoned greyhound. On July 27th she announced a plan to house them at a new air-conditioned facility. Anima agreed to run it. Ms Tang says the priority now is to find permanent homes for the pooches. About 700 prospective owners have filed applications, though she worries that some might spirit them to illegal tracks, or even dinner tables, elsewhere in China. Candidates will be scrutinised closely. Victory for the greyhounds is in sight at last.

   spirit：诱拐

