​       The world has not learned the lessons of the financial crisis

1. WHEN historians gaze back at the early 21st century, they will identify two seismic shocks. The first was the terrorist attacks of September 11th 2001, the second the global financial crisis, which boiled over ten years ago this month with the collapse of Lehman Brothers. September 11th led to wars, Lehman’s bankruptcy to an economic and political reckoning. Just as the fighting continues, so the reckoning is far from over.

   seismic:very great, serious, or important

   seismic changes in international relations

   reckoning:a time when you are judged or punished for your actions, or when they have results that affect you

   In the final reckoning, the president failed to achieve his major goals.

2. Lehman failed after losing money on toxic loans and securities linked to America’s property market. Its bankruptcy unleashed chaos. Trade fell in every country on which the World Trade Organisation reports. Credit supplied to the real economy fell, by perhaps $2trn in America alone. To limit their indebtedness, governments resorted to austerity. Having exhausted the scope to cut interest rates, central bankers turned to quantitative easing (creating money to buy bonds).

   exhaust:to use all of something

   We are in danger of *exhausting* the world’s oil *supply*.

   Having *exhausted* all other *possibilities*, I asked Jan to look after the baby.

3. Just as the causes of the financial crisis were many and varied, so were its consequences. It turbocharged today’s populist surge, raising questions about income inequality, job insecurity and globalisation. But it also changed the financial system. The question is: did it change it enough?

   turbocharge:涡轮增压；加速

4. To splurge is human

   One way—the wrong way—to judge progress would be to expect an end to financial crises. Systemic banking meltdowns are a feature of human history. The IMF has counted 124 of them between 1970 and 2007. There is no question that they will occur again, if only because good times breed complacency. Consider that the Trump administration is deregulating finance during an economic boom and that the Federal Reserve has not yet raised counter-cyclical capital requirements. Even when prudence prevails, no regulator is a perfect judge of risk.

   splurge:to spend more money than you can usually afford

   "We may not be able to buy luxuries any more, but we can still splurge on small pleasures like chocolate, " he laughs.

   meltdown:a situation in which prices fall by a very large amount or an industry or economic situation becomes much weaker

   The stock market crash might lead to financial meltdown.

   breed:to cause a particular feeling or condition

   complacency:a feeling of satisfaction with a situation or with what you have achieved, so that you stop trying to improve or change things – used to show disapproval

   Doctors have warned against complacency in fighting common diseases.

   prudence:a sensible and careful attitude that makes you avoid unnecessary risks

5. A better test is whether the likelihood and size of crises can be reduced. On that, the news is both good and bad.First, the good. Banks must now fund themselves with more equity and less debt. They depend less on trading to make money and on short-term wholesale borrowing to finance their activities. Even in Europe, where few banks make large profits, the system as a whole is stronger than it was. Regulators have beefed up their oversight, especially of the largest institutions that are too big to fail. On both sides of the Atlantic banks are subject to regular stress tests and must submit plans for their own orderly demise. Derivatives markets of the type that felled AIG, an insurer, are smaller and safer. Revamped pay policies should prevent a repeat of the injustice of bankers taking public money while pocketing huge pay-packets—in 2009 staff at the five biggest banks trousered $114bn.

   demise:the end of something that used to exist

   the *imminent demise* (= *happening soon* ) of the local newspaper

   revamp:to change something in order to improve it and make it seem more modern

   Many older companies are revamping their image.

   trouser:to get a large amount of money – used to show disapproval

   Even though he has in effect been sacked, he will trouser a £150,000 bonus.

6. Yet many lessons have gone unlearned. Take, for example, policymakers’ mistakes in the aftermath of the crisis. The state had no choice but to stand behind failing banks, but it took the ill-judged decision to all but abandon insolvent households. Perhaps 9m Americans lost their homes in the recession; unemployment rose by over 8m. While households paid down debt, consumer spending was ravaged.

   insolvent:not having enough money to pay what you owe

   The company was later *declared insolvent*

   ravage:to damage something very badly

   a country ravaged by civil war

7. It has taken fully ten years for the countervailing economic stimulus to restore America’s economy to health. Many of Europe’s economies still suffer from weak aggregate demand. Fiscal and monetary policy could have done more, sooner, to bring about recovery. They were held back by mostly misplaced concerns about government debt and inflation. The fact that this failing is not more widely acknowledged augurs badly for the policy response next time.

   countervail:抵消，对抗

   hold back:If you hold back or if something holds you back, you hesitate before you do something because you are not sure whether it is the right thing to do.

   The Bush administration had several reasons for holding back. 

   augur well/badly/ill:to be a sign that something will be successful or unsuccessful

   Today’s announcement of 300 redundancies does not augur well for the local economy.

8. Stagnation has, inevitably, fed populism. And, by looking for scapegoats and simplistic solutions that punish them, populism has made it harder to confront the real long-term problems that the crisis exposed. Three stand out: housing, offshore dollar finance and the euro.

   scapegoat:someone who is blamed for something bad that happens, even if it is not their fault

   She believed she had been *made* a *scapegoat* for what happened.