##Volvo abandons its plans for an IPO
VOLVO puts safety first. The Swedish carmaker was the first to introduce three-point seat belts in 1959. Its aspiration is that its technology will ensure that no one is killed or seriously injured in any Volvo sold after 2020. Safety issues may also explain the decision on September 10th to shelve long-held plans for an initial public offering, which Volvo had hoped might value the firm at $30bn. At that lofty price it might have struggled to protect investors’ money as conscientiously as it looks after the well-being of passengers.

The firm said the unpredictability of a brewing global trade war had persuaded it to wait. But an IPO that valued the upmarket Swedish carmaker on a par with Audi—which makes nearly 2m cars a year, three times as many as Volvo produces—always looked a stretch. Its owner, Geely, a Chinese carmaker, decided to delay when it became clear that the firm would not merit such a high valuation.
1. by any stretch (of the imagination):used to emphasize that a negative statement is true
无论怎样想象都（不），再怎么说也（不）〔用于强调某个否定说法是真的〕
My family wasn’t famous by any stretch of the imagination.
我家再怎么说也算不上望族。

Yet despite its readiness to embrace a world of electrification, mobility services and autonomous driving, success is as uncertain for Volvo as it is for other carmakers. Volvo is setting the pace on electric vehicles (EVs), for example: it has promised that all its cars will be electrified by 2019. But the transition to EVs will be expensive, and Volvo is far smaller and less profitable than German rivals. Returns from selling mobility services are largely untested.
1. 沃尔沃承诺到2019年生产的所有汽车都将是电车。