##The world has not learned the lessons of the financial crisis(2)
The precise shape of the next financial crisis is unclear—otherwise it would surely be avoided. But, in one way or another, it is likely to involve property.*[1]Rich-world governments have never properly reconciled a desire to boost home ownership with the need to avoid dangerous booms in household credit, as in the mid-2000s.* In America the reluctance to confront this means that the taxpayer underwrites 70% of all new mortgage lending. *[2]Everywhere, regulations encourage banks to lend against property rather than make loans to businesses.* The risk will be mitigated only when politicians embrace fundamental reforms, such as reducing household borrowing, with risk-sharing mortgages or permanent constraints on loan-to-value ratios. In America taxpayers should get out of the rotten business of guaranteeing mortgage debt. Sadly, populists are hardly likely to take on homeowners.
1. property:a building, a piece of land, or both together
Property prices have shot up recently.
a sign saying ‘ Private Property . Keep Out.
2. reconcile:if you reconcile two ideas, situations, or facts, you find a way in which they can both be true or acceptable
The possibility remains that the two theories may be reconciled.
3. [1]发达国家的政府从来没有恰当地调和过提高住房拥有率的愿望，因为有必要避免家庭信贷的危险繁荣，就像在2000年代中期一样。
4. underwrite:to support an activity, business plan etc with money, and to take financial responsibility if it fails
The government has agreed to underwrite the project with a grant of £5 million.
5. [2]任何地方监管都鼓励银行信贷投向企业而不是房地产。
6. mitigate:to make a situation or the effects of something less unpleasant, harmful, or serious
Measures need to be taken to mitigate the environmental effects of burning more coal.
7. loan-to-value ratio:贷款成数

Next, the greenback. The crisis spread across borders because European banks ran out of the dollars they needed to pay back their dollar-denominated borrowing. *[3]The Fed acted as lender of last resort to the world, offering foreigners $1trn of liquidity.* Since then, offshore dollar debts have roughly doubled. In the next crisis, America’s political system is unlikely to let the Fed act as the backstop to this vast system, even after Donald Trump leaves the White House. Finding ways to make offshore dollar finance safe, such as pooling dollar reserves among emerging-market countries, relies on international co-operation of the type that is fast falling out of fashion.
1. [3]美联储充当了世界上最后贷款人的角色，向外国人提供了1万亿美元的流动性。

The rise of nationalism also hinders Europe from solving the euro’s structural problems. *[4]The crisis showed how a country’s banks and its government are intertwined: the state struggles to borrow enough to support the banks, which are dragged down by the falling value of government debt.* This “doom loop” remains mostly intact. Until Europe shares more risks across national borders—whether through financial markets, deposit guarantees or fiscal policy—the future of the single currency will remain in doubt. A chaotic collapse of the euro would make the crisis of 2008 look like a **picnic**.
1. intertwine:if two things intertwine, or if they are intertwined, they are twisted together
2. [4]这场危机表明，一个国家的银行和政府是如何相互交织在一起的：政府努力借到足够的钱来支持银行，而这些银行被政府债务的价值下降所拖累。
3. picnic:how to translate?

Policymakers have made the economy safer, but they still have plenty of lessons to learn. And fracturing geopolitics make globalised finance even harder to deal with. A decade after Lehman failed, finance has a worrying amount to fix.

##African swine flu is causing alarm in China—and beyond
AS CHINA’S agriculture authorities scramble to contain the spread of a pig-killing virus, experts worry that it could spread elsewhere in Asia. But the consequences of the disease at home are bad enough. Pork is China’s favourite meat. Pig farming is big business. The collapse of its market would hamper economic growth. Badly handled, the outbreak could dent the government’s credibility.
1. dent:to damage or harm something
The scandal has dented his reputation.

The disease was first reported on August 3rd, when it was noted that 47 out of 383 pigs on a small farm in Liaoning, a province in the far north-east, had died. The virus has spread to five other provinces: Anhui, Henan, Heilongjiang, Jiangsu and Zhejiang. The authorities have stepped up inspections, shut some live markets, stopped the transport of pigs from the affected areas and culled nearly 40,000 swine. On September 5th the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) held an emergency meeting of regional animal-health experts in Bangkok. The rapid onset of the disease in China and its spread to places 1,000km apart mean it could easily jump across China’s borders, says the FAO.
1. cull:to kill animals so that there are not too many of them, or so that a disease does not spread

A number of big rural districts with plenty of pig farms fall within the territory of Beijing, the capital. City officials say they are taking measures to screen them, check sanitation and impose quarantine. However, at several pig farms in Shunyi and Huairou districts, 60km north of Beijing’s city centre, workers said no special measures had yet been taken. One said he had never even heard of African swine fever, as the disease is known.
1. sanitation:the protection of public health by removing and treating waste, dirty water etc
Overcrowding and poor sanitation are common problems in prisons.
2. quarantine:A quarantine is used to separate and restrict the movement of people; it is 'a restraint upon the activities or communication of persons or the transport of goods designed to prevent the spread of disease or pests', for a certain period of time.

The virus spreads easily between pigs, killing nearly all it infects. But health experts across the world agree that it cannot spread to humans, even through eating the meat of an infected pig. The Chinese, however, tend to mistrust official pronouncements on such matters, so the website of the People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s official organ, was widely mocked when its headline declared that everyone should be “at ease about eating pork”. Indeed, many assumed that something must be wrong with it. He Qinglian, an exiled critic of the party, said on Twitter that chefs should lay 100 tables on Tiananmen Square so that agriculture officials could publicly eat the pork of the infected pigs.
1. mock:to laugh at someone or something and try to make them look stupid by saying unkind things about them or by copying them
Opposition MPs mocked the government’s decision.
It’s easy for you to mock, but we put a lot of work into this play.

Foreign observers are likely to be just as wary. The Chinese authorities have a long history of dissembling about diseases that affect both humans and animals, including the SARS crisis of 2003 and an outbreak of another porcine infection, blue-ear pig disease, in 2007. In both cases China played down the severity of the crises and stonewalled inquiries from foreign governments and international agencies. This year American health officials have accused China of violating agreements and withholding lab samples of another deadly disease, the H7N9 flu virus, which can infect both poultry and humans.
1. dissemble:to hide your true feelings, thoughts etc
2. stonewall:to delay a discussion, decision etc by talking a lot and refusing to answer questions
3. withhold:to refuse to give someone something
Ian was accused of withholding vital information from the police.
4. poultry:[plural,复数] birds such as chickens and ducks that are kept on farms in order to produce eggs and meat

This time the pig fever is stoking fears of inflation. The cost of pork has an inordinate effect on the consumer-price index. With a fifth of the world’s population, China consumes half its pork. The government has set up a strategic pork reserve to keep the price stable. The blue-ear pig-disease episode of 2007 provoked a rise of 87% in pork prices and one of the biggest leaps in inflation for nearly two decades.
1. stoke:to cause something to increase
Rising oil prices stoked inflation.
stoke fear/anger/envy etc
The scandal has stoked public outrage.
2. inordinate:far more than you would reasonably or normally expect
Testing is taking up an inordinate amount of teachers’ time.

Inflation now is at its highest rate in four months. The consumer-price index rose 1.9% in June and 2.1% in July. An editorial on September 4th in Caixin, an influential financial publication, said that Chinese history had taught “painful lessons about the dangers of inflation” and the government had “a rare time-window to prevent inflation from escalating”. The spread of African swine fever will not make it any easier to control.

The timing is particularly awkward since the outbreak coincided with the much-vaunted Forum on China-Africa Co-operation, hosted by Xi Jinping, China’s leader, on September 3rd and 4th in Beijing, to win African hearts, minds and business deals. The last thing the event’s promoters wanted to see was the word “African” attached to a story about dying pigs. An official at Beijing’s Agriculture Bureau said the topic was “too sensitive” to discuss while the forum was under way and suggested that your correspondent find something else to write about.
1. vaunt:boast about or praise (something), especially excessively.

##More solar power hurts nuclear energy. But it also hurts itself
SOME call it a zero-carbon schism, others a heresy. The researchers, policymakers and environmentalists united over the need to stop global warming are divided on how to go about it. Many believe that renewable energy, especially wind and solar, has by far the biggest role to play. A dogged few, however, cling to nuclear energy, which is also carbon-free but has an image problem. The two camps barely speak to each other.
1. schism:the separation of a group into two groups, caused by a disagreement about its aims and beliefs, especially in the Christian church
2. heresy:a belief, statement etc that disagrees with what a group of people believe to be right
To come to work without a shirt and tie was considered heresy.

That is why three little words, “zero-carbon resources”, in a bill that landed on the desk of California’s governor, Jerry Brown, on August 29th are so important. Not only would the legislation commit the state to generating 60% of its electricity from renewables by 2030, up from a previous mandate of 50%. It also calls for generating 100% by 2045 from renewable and “zero-carbon resources”, which could include nuclear power. Of course, by then other emission-free energy technologies, such as batteries, hydrogen, and the capture and sequestration of carbon dioxide from fossil-fuel plants, could be better and cheaper than splitting nuclei. But atomic energy would stand a chance if it is still around. And in green matters, where California goes others often follow.
1. sequestration:the action of taking legal possession of assets until a debt has been paid or other claims have been met.
2. nucleus:the central part of an atom, made up of neutrons, protons, and other elementary particles;a small important group at the centre of a larger group or organization
Marantz and Grohl form the nucleus of the Atlanta operation.
plural nuclei
splitting nuclei:核分裂

In 2017 almost 30% of the state’s electricity came from renewable sources, with solar and wind accounting for about 10% each. Nuclear was about 9%. A decade ago, solar was just 0.22%, and wind 2.25%, with nuclear at 15%. Nuclear’s relative decline reflects, in part, a global trend highlighted in the World Nuclear Industry Status Report (WNISR), issued on September 4th. During the past decade investment in renewables has surged, whereas in nuclear it has stagnated (see chart, top panel). Falling prices of solar panels and wind turbines, the ever-growing expense and difficulty of building nuclear facilities, and cheap natural gas all play a part.
1. ever-growing:日益增长的

A working paper published last month by James Bushnell and Kevin Novan of the University of California, Davis, underscores the challenge that renewables pose for nuclear and other sources of baseload power, such as coal. It shows that average output at noon from big solar farms in California increased tenfold between 2012 and 2016. That has had a big impact on wholesale power prices. The average real-time price around midday has dropped sharply, whereas after sundown average prices have increased. The more solar capacity is installed, the authors find, the worse for baseload generators—that is, those that produce electricity around the clock.*[5] The new energy mix rewards gas turbines that can be turned on for a few hours to satisfy peak demand in the evening.*
1. around the clock:昼夜不停
2. [5]新的能源组合将回报燃气轮机，这些涡轮机可以在晚上打开几个小时，以满足晚上的高峰需求。

But because additional solar capacity will produce power at times when there is already a glut, returns to further investment in solar capacity will decline. This points to a big flaw in state mandates, such as California’s, which assume that investment will pour into renewables even if market prices are low.*[6] The authors favour a price on carbon instead (California already has a “cap and trade” scheme), which would help spur investment in clean-energy provision at times when the sun is not shining.*
1. glut:a supply of something, especially a product or crop, that is more than is needed
2. [6]作者们(第三段提到的report)倾向于对碳排放定价（加州已经有限额交易方案），这将有助于刺激清洁能源夜晚时分供给的投资。

About 150 gigawatts of wind and solar were installed globally in 2017 versus 3GW of nuclear. Yet even though so much favours renewables, atomic energy is not dead. Nuclear power still provides more than twice as much electricity globally as wind, and 5.5 times as much as solar, partly because it runs all the time rather than intermittently. In June President Donald Trump instructed his energy secretary, Rick Perry, to take emergency steps to keep nuclear and coal plants running, citing national-security considerations. In April New Jersey launched a scheme to reward nuclear-power plants for producing emissions-free power, as part of the state’s goal for 100% clean energy by 2050.
1. cite:to mention something as an example, especially one that supports, proves, or explains an idea or situation
The judge cited a 1956 Supreme Court ruling in her decision.
Several factors have been cited as the cause of the unrest.

China will be central to nuclear power’s future. It accounted for three of the four new nuclear plants to connect to the grid last year globally, has the most reactors under construction, and in June introduced two new classes of design. But it also leads the world in renewables. Russia’s Rosatom, a state-owned nuclear-power firm, is selling its technology abroad vigorously.

The WNISR, whose authors consider themselves industry critics, draws attention to another potential reason why nuclear power is resilient: its usefulness for nuclear-weapons programmes. The processes which produce fuel for civilian plants can also be used to produce crucial fissile material for weapons, and the training, research and industrial capabilities that come with an indigenous civilian nuclear programme can be very helful for other purposes, such as nuclear submarines programmes. It says that only in the past few years are insiders starting to acknowledge, in countries like America, that it is hard to sustain a nuclear-weapons capability without a parallel civilian nuclear programme. That may help explain the commitment to keep alive plans to build nuclear plants among big military powers in the West and Asia, even though a mixture of renewables and natural gas could be far cheaper. Such suspicions merely widen the rift between the two carbon-free camps.
1. resilient:able to become strong, happy, or successful again after a difficult situation or event
The company proved remarkably resilient during the recession.
2. fissile:able to be split by atomic fission
fission:the process of splitting an atom to produce large amounts of energy or an explosion