​       What other countries can learn from Singapore’s schools

1. WHEN the island of Singapore became an independent country in 1965, it had few friends and even fewer natural resources. How did it become one of the world’s great trading and financial centres? The strategy, explained Lee Kuan Yew, its first prime minister, was “to develop Singapore’s only available natural resource: its people”.

2. Today Singapore’s education system is considered the best in the world. The country consistently ranks at the top of the OECD’s Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), a triennial test of 15-year-olds in dozens of countries, in the main three categories of maths, reading and science. Singaporean pupils are roughly three years ahead of their American peers in maths. Singapore does similarly well in exams of younger children, and the graduates of its best schools can be found scattered around the world’s finest universities.

   triennial:happening every three years

3. The island-state has much to teach the world. But other countries are reluctant pupils. One reason is that Singapore favours traditional pedagogy, with teachers leading the class. That contrasts with many reformers’ preference for looser, more “progressive” teaching intended to encourage children to learn for themselves. Although international studies suggest that direct instruction is indeed a good way of conveying knowledge, critics contend that Singapore has a “drill and kill” model that produces uncreative, miserable maths whizzes. Parents worry about the stress the system puts on their children (and on them, even as they ferry kids to extra classes).

   pedagogy:the practice of teaching or the study of teaching

   contend:to argue or state that something is true

   Some astronomers contend that the universe may be younger than previously thought.

   whizz:someone who is very fast, intelligent, or skilled in a particular activity

4. Yet Singapore shows that academic brilliance need not come at the expense of personal skills. In 2015 Singaporean students also came first in a new PISA ranking designed to look at collaborative problem-solving, scoring even better than they did in reading and science. They also reported themselves to be happy—more so than children in Finland, for instance, a country that educationalists regard as an example of how to achieve exceptional results with cuddlier methods of teaching. Not content with its achievements, Singapore is now introducing reforms to improve creativity and reduce stress. This is not a sign of failure, but rather of a gradual, evidence-led approach to education reform—the first of three lessons that Singapore offers the rest of the world.

   cuddly:a person or animal that is cuddly makes you want to cuddle them

   cuddle:to hold someone or something very close to you with your arms around them, especially to show that you love them

5. Where other countries often enact piecemeal and uncoordinated reforms, Singapore tries to look at the system as a whole. It invests heavily in education research. All reforms are tested, with the outcomes diligently monitored, before being rolled out. Close attention is paid to how new ideas and results should be applied in schools. Carefully developed textbooks, worksheets and worked examples—practices often seen as outdated in the West—are used to inject expertise into the classroom. The result is good alignment between assessments, accountability and teaching styles.

   enact:to act in a play, story etc

   piecemeal:a process that is piecemeal happens slowly and in stages that are not regular or planned properly

   零碎的，缺乏通盘计划的

   The buildings have been adapted *in a piecemeal fashion* .

   a piecemeal approach to the problem

   一种头痛医头、脚痛医脚的解决问题方式

   diligent:someone who is diligent works hard and is careful and thorough

   alignment:一致性

6. The second lesson is to embrace Singapore’s distinctive approach to teaching, notably of mathematics—as America and England are already doing to some extent. It emphasises a narrower but deeper curriculum, and seeks to ensure that a whole class progresses through the syllabus. Struggling pupils get compulsory extra sessions to help them keep up; even the less-able do comparatively well. An analysis in 2016 in England found that the Singaporean approach boosted results, though it was somewhat watered down in transition.

   syllabus:a plan that states exactly what students at a school or college should learn in a particular subject

   Two Shakespeare plays are on this year’s English syllabus.

   water down:to make a statement, report etc less forceful by changing it or removing parts that may offend people – used to show disapproval

   The report of the investigation had been watered down.

7. The third and most important lesson is to focus on developing excellent teachers. In Singapore, they get 100 hours of training a year to keep up to date with the latest techniques. The government pays them well, too. It accepts the need for larger classes (the average is 36 pupils, compared with 24 across the OECD). Better, so the thinking goes, to have big classes taught by excellent teachers than smaller ones taught by mediocre ones. Teachers who want more kudos but not the bureaucratic burden of running schools can become “master teachers”, with responsibility for training their peers. The best teachers get postings to the ministry of education and hefty bonuses: overall, teachers are paid about the same as their peers in private-sector professions. Teachers are also subject to rigorous annual performance assessments.

   kudos:the state of being admired and respected for being important or for doing something important

   posting:if a soldier, a representative of a country etc gets a posting somewhere, they are sent there to do their job

   shortly before his posting to South Africa

8. Class dismissed

   The system is hardly faultless. Other countries might wish to avoid Singapore’s dividing of high- and low-achievers into separate schools from the age of 12. The benefits of doing so are unproven, and it contributes to stress about exams. Singapore’s size, moreover, allows for an unusual degree of centralisation. The director-general of the ministry of education says he knows more than 80% of head teachers by name, which makes it easier to keep tabs on what is going on. Other trade-offs would be unpalatable elsewhere. In most countries, teachers’ unions and parents are resistant to big classes, for instance. That is a shame. Education would be much better if more countries copied Singapore’s homework.

   keep tabs on:监视，密切注意

   palatable:an idea, suggestion etc that is palatable is acceptable

   The truth, as always, is slightly less palatable.

   They changed the wording of the advertisement to *make* it more *palatable* to women.



   Are Google searches biased in favour of left-leaning news outlets?

9. DESPITE making heavy use of their platforms, the 45th president is no fan of America’s big tech firms. Nor is he a fan of the press. On August 28th, President Donald Trump took a swipe at both by accusing Google of rigging its search results in favour of “Fake News”. As evidence, the president claimed that 96% of search results for “Trump News” were articles from the “National Left-Wing Media”. Larry Kudlow, the president’s economic adviser, said that the Trump administration is considering regulating how Google presents its results.

   rig:to dishonestly arrange the result of an election or competition before it happens

   Some international observers have claimed the election was rigged.

10. That the White House might retaliate against a company that, it thinks, is not serving the public enough flattering stories, is the kind of norm-flouting that has become normal in 2018. That aside, is Mr Trump right to think the California-based search giant is somehow suppressing conservative thought? The 96% statistic he cited appears to have come from PJ Media, a blog. Paula Bolyard, the post’s author, conducted her analysis by searching for “Trump” on Google’s news tool. Out of the first 100 of her results, only five articles came from what she deemed conservative publications.

    suppress:if important information or opinions are suppressed, people are prevented from knowing about them, even if they have a right to know

    The police were accused of suppressing evidence.

11. In an attempt to answer the question, *The Economist* wrote a program that searched for “Trump” on Google News every day so far in 2018. We used a browser in Dallas that was cleared of clues about previous searches. We then matched the results with web-traffic statistics from Alexa, an analytics company owned by Amazon, to see how popular each site is (more popular sites show up more often in Google News). Next, we marked a number of news publications as right-leaning or not.

12. Our analysis finds that, even after accounting for how popular their websites are, fewer articles from right-leaning outlets show up on Google (see chart). To get around the problem that more of America’s reality-based news outlets are left-of-centre, just as conspiracy theorists currently lean right, we then built a model which incorporates data from the Knight Foundation on how trustworthy Americans think each publication is. After controlling for trustworthiness and volume of Trump articles published, we found there was no evidence that ideology influences Google News results.

13. Google’s search algorithm takes account of the popularity of articles and how user-friendly websites are, among many other variables. It may be that conservative publications write fewer eye-catching articles about the president. As the chart shows, the results are skewed by the popularity of three outlets that have done some of the best reporting on this presidency. A final possibility is that liberals, despite their horror, are simply more compelled to read about Mr Trump than conservatives are.

    skew:if something skews the results of a test etc, it affects them, making them incorrect

    All the people we questioned lived in the same area, which had the effect of skewing the figures.



    Hurricane Maria was the most deadly storm in America since 1900

14. WITH vicious winds gusting at 120mph, the hurricane that made landfall in Puerto Rico on September 20th 2017 was expected to be deadly. Hurricane Maria wrought destruction across the island, cutting power, communications and drinking water to nearly every home. Yet most of the 3.3m islanders appeared to escape the worst fate: two weeks later, the official death toll reported by the island’s government was just 16 people.

    vicious:unpleasantly strong or severe

    mph:miles per hour  1 mile = 1.609344 kilometer

    landfall:the land that you see or arrive at after a long journey by sea or air, or the act of arriving there

    wreak havoc/mayhem/destruction (on sth):to cause a lot of damage or problems

    These policies have wreaked havoc on the British economy.

15. President Donald Trump made much of the low death count when he visited San Juan on October 3rd. “We’ve saved a lot of lives…If you look at a real catastrophe like Katrina and the hundreds that died…16 versus literally thousands of people…you can be very proud.” Although the death toll rose slowly over the weeks that followed, from 16 to 64 deaths, it remained surprisingly low given the severity of the storm.

16. Suspicious that the true figure was higher, several others attempted a better guess. In December the *New York Times* analysed mortality reports and reckoned that the hurricane had killed as many as 1,052 people in the period to October 31st. A paper published in the *New England Journal of Medicine* in May surveyed hurricane survivors and calculated that anywhere between 793 and 8,498 people had perished.

17. The island’s governor, Ricardo Rosselló, was suspicious of the official toll, too. It mostly counted direct deaths from flying debris and the like, overlooking deaths from power cuts and lack of water that led to medical complications. In February Mr Rosselló commissioned an independent report by epidemiologists at George Washington University to arrive at a more accurate count.

    overlook:to not notice something, or not see how important it is

    It is easy to overlook a small detail like that.

    Nobody could *overlook the fact that* box office sales were down.

    commission:to formally ask someone to write an official report, produce a work of art for you etc

    The report was commissioned by the Welsh Office.

18. That report was released on August 28th, fully 342 days after the hurricane made landfall. The academics calculated a final figure based on the observed excess mortality over and above what might be expected in normal weather. In total they rest on a final death count of between 2,658 and 3,290. That would make Maria the worst hurricane to affect America for 118 years (see chart).

19. It is absurd that the death toll of 64 remained official for so long. Although ascertaining good data on deaths after a natural disaster is difficult—the official death count from hurricane Katrina in 2005 is still disputed—the governor’s office could have done a lot more to communicate the inherent uncertainty in the official count. After New Orleans was hit by Katrina, its mayor simply said the death toll would “shock the nation”.

    ascertain:to find out something

    Tests were conducted to ascertain whether pollution levels have dropped.

    You should ascertain the level of insurance cover from the car rental company.

20. By contrast, the low number in Puerto Rico may well have lessened the urgency of relief efforts. A third of Americans said they donated money in the immediate aftermath, which is low by the country’s generous standards. Meanwhile Puerto Rico is bankrupt, the economy will shrink 8% this year and the young and talented are leaving in droves. The number of tourists has halved. And the island is still waiting for around $80bn of federal funds to help its recovery.

    lessen:to become smaller in size, importance, or value, or make something do this

    Exercise lessens the risk of heart disease.

    The new project will lessen the effects of car pollution.

    aftermath:the period of time after something such as a war, storm, or accident when people are still dealing with the results

    the danger of disease *in the aftermath* of the earthquake