​       A sense of curiosity is helpful for artificial intelligence

1. SOFTWARE that can learn is changing the world, but it needs supervision. Humans provide such oversight in two ways. The first is to show machine-learning algorithms large sets of data that describe the task at hand. Labelled pictures of cats and dogs, for instance, allow an algorithm to learn to discriminate between the two. The other form of supervision is to set a specific goal within a highly structured environment, such as achieving a high score in a video game, and then let the algorithm try out lots of possibilities until it finds one that achieves the objective.

2. These two approaches to “supervised learning” have led to breakthroughs in artificial intelligence. In 2012 a group of researchers from the University of Toronto used the first method to build AlexNet, a piece of software that in a competition recognised one in ten more images than its closest competitors. In 2015 researchers at DeepMind, a British AI firm owned by Alphabet, used the second method to teach an algorithm to play Atari video games at superhuman levels, an advance that led to later triumphs at Go, a board game.

3. Such breakthroughs underpin much of the excitement in AI today. But supervised learning has weaknesses. Human guidance is expensive, involving manual tasks such as labelling data or designing virtual environments. Once complete, that guidance cannot be used for other lessons. Nor is supervised learning very realistic. The real world does not often label things or provide explicit signals about the progress that a learner is making. Both AlexNet and DeepMind’s game-playing agents require millions or billions of examples or simulations to work on—and powerful computers that use lots of electricity. “If you are going to do this with every new [training] task, you are going to need dozens of nuclear power plants doing nothing else,” says Pierre-Yves Oudeyer, an AI researcher at Inria, the French national institute for computer science in Paris.

   underpin:to give strength or support to something and to help it succeed

4. I wonder…

   If AI is going to really take off, then something more is needed. Dr Oudeyer says that requirement is driving interest in one of the fundamental mechanisms used by humans to learn about the world: curiosity. Instead of training algorithms with functions created by humans, Dr Oudeyer and others have spent the past 20 years developing artificial agents that use their own intrinsic reward systems to inspect the world around them and gather data. Such work is starting to come into its own.

   intrinsic:being part of the nature or character of someone or something

   There is nothing in the intrinsic nature of the work that makes it more suitable for women.

   Flexibility is intrinsic to creative management.

5. The first generation of curious AI used “prediction error” to motivate the agent. The software would explore the environment it was required to study, whether physical or virtual, looking for things that deviated significantly from what it predicted it would find. In other words, it searched for novel data. Using prediction error worked, but it had a big flaw. An agent looking at passing cars, for instance, might become obsessed with the sequence of the colours of each car, because its prediction about what colour would come next is almost always wrong. That serves no useful purpose. Nor would a curious robot repeatedly throwing itself down the stairs for the sheer informatic thrill of it, rather than learning to walk its way down.

   deviate:to change what you are doing so that you are not following an expected plan, idea, or type of behaviour

   The plane had to deviate from its normal flight path.

   obsess:if something or someone obsesses you, you think or worry about them all the time and you cannot think about anything else – used to show disapproval

   A lot of young girls are obsessed by their weight.

6. This problem is fixed by concentrating on the rate at which an agent’s prediction error changes, rather than on the error itself. Using this process, a robot watching the sun rise and set will see its prediction errors start high but decrease over time, as it learns about the actual properties of a physical system. Using the rate of change in a prediction-error system as a signal for the agent to move on to something else is equivalent to giving it a boredom threshold. If the robot trying to work out the pattern of colours of passing cars were to use such a system it would make errors at a steady rate, and get bored.

7. Dr Oudeyer has tried out his curiosity algorithms in practical pursuits. In June his group tested one on 600 primary schoolchildren at a number of public and private schools in the Aquitaine region of France. The idea was to model each child’s learning in mathematics and present each pupil with exercises in a way that optimises their learning. The system, called KidLearn, treats each child as its own curious agent, and adapts the learning content to suit that child’s level of understanding and progress. Unlike other software, KidLearn does not rely on data gathered from other children as its guide but is tuned primarily by a child’s curiosity. Dr Oudeyer’s researchers will shortly report on how well their system performs.

   tune:to make small changes to an engine so that it works as well as possible

8. Researchers in Silicon Valley have been embracing curiosity, too. In a recent paper Deepak Pathak and his colleagues at the University of California, Berkeley and OpenAI, a non-profit research firm backed by Elon Musk, showed that curiosity-driven learning works well across a range of virtual environments, despite the fact that their agent was told nothing about the video games it was playing, nor given any signal when it died in the game or reached a higher level.

9. The curious agent displayed some interesting behaviour. It learned to achieve higher scores in Breakout, a block-breaking game, because the higher the score the more complicated the pattern of blocks becomes, and the more the agent’s curiosity was satisfied. When two curious agents played Pong they learned to rally so long that they crashed the game because they found rallying was more interesting than winning. Dying is also boring. “The agent avoids dying in the games since that brings it back to the beginning of the game, an area it has already seen many times and where it can predict the dynamics well,” the researchers said in a recent paper.

10. There are other ways to bestow machines with the urge to explore. Kenneth Stanley, a researcher at Uber’s AI lab in San Francisco, mimics evolution. His system starts with a set of random algorithms, chooses the one that looks good for the task at hand, then generates a set of algorithms derived from it. Eventually it arrives at an algorithm that is most suited for the job. Evolution, Mr Stanley notes, can yield serendipitous results that goal-driven optimisation cannot. Biological evolution was not explicitly curious about flying, and yet it still managed to come up with birds.

    bestow:to give someone something of great value or importance

    honours bestowed on him by the Queen

    mimic:to behave or operate in exactly the same way as something or someone else

    Europe should not try to mimic Japan: we have to find our own path to successful modernisation.

    The drug mimics the action of the body’s own chemicals.

    serendipitous:ADJ A serendipitous event is one that is not planned but has a good result

    a serendipitous discovery

11. All this suggests that a more complete set of learning algorithms is emerging. Artificial agents that are driven by curiosity or evolution could look after the earlier stages of learning. They are also more suited to sparse environments devoid of much data. Once something interesting has been found, supervised learning could take over to ensure particular features are learned exactly. Last week, in a video-game competition in Vancouver, AI agents created by OpenAI, using the most advanced supervised-learning techniques available, were crushed by humans in DOTA 2, a strategy game. More curious modes of learning might have helped AI play the long-term parts of the game, in which there are few reward signals and no changes in score.

    sparse:existing only in small amounts

    rural areas with sparse populations

    be devoid of sth:to be completely lacking in something

    His face was devoid of any warmth or humour.

12. “I’d hate to die twice. It’s so boring,” were the death-bed words of Richard Feynman, an American theoretical physicist. His last salute to curiosity followed a lifetime probing the inner workings of the universe, finding new things to model and to understand. That very human inclination can motivate machines as well as man.

    inclination:a feeling that makes you want to do something

    Neither of my children showed the slightest inclination to follow me into journalism.

    Teachers simply do not have *the time or the inclination* to investigate these matters.

13. Downsized: India’s payment banks

    India’s 300,000 mail carriers have a new job today: carrying a smartphone and a biometric reader on their bicycles to offer banking to millions of consumers in far-flung areas. Accounts will be linked to the individuals’ Aadhaar, a unique, biometrically verifiable number. By the end of 2018 India Post’s 155,000 branches—three times as many as all commercial banks combined—will be onboard, creating the largest banking network in the country. This is all part of the government’s new push for “payments banks”. These institutions will allow balances of up to 100,000 rupees ($1,400), and let users send money domestically and pay utility bills. Four private competitors will join in too, including Paytm, backed by China’s Alibaba. They will operate through a network of stores, hole-in-the-wall shops and petrol stations. The World Bank estimates that 190m Indians do not have a bank account. Payments banks are intended to change that.

    mail carrier:邮递员

    biometric:生物识别

    hole-in-the-wall:简陋的，狭小的

14. Winter is coming: inflation in Turkey

    Turkey’s statistical authority released August’s inflation figures today, delivering more bad news for the country’s economy. A credit boom and a deepening currency crisis had already pushed inflation to nearly 16%, the highest since 2004. Today’s figure shows prices are growing at an annual rate of almost 18%, and across a wide range of categories. A few belated and cosmetic measures aside, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government and the central bank have done little to rein in prices or to reassure markets. Amid concerns over Mr Erdogan’s accumulation of new powers, his tightening stranglehold over monetary and fiscal policy, and tensions with America, the Turkish lira has lost over 40% of its value this year. The country’s economic-confidence index is at its lowest since 2009. On September 1st Turkey increased electricity and natural-gas prices for households by 9% and for companies by 14%. Turks are in for a harsh winter.

    belated:happening or arriving late

    The statement was a belated acknowledgement that the project had not been a success.

    cosmetic:dealing with the outside appearance rather than the important part of something

    stranglehold:complete control over a situation, organization etc

    Just a few firms *have a stranglehold* on the market for this software.

15. Donald Trump threatened anew to keep Canada out of the post-NAFTA agreement his administration reached with Mexico last week, tweeting that without “a fair deal for the US…Canada will be out.” Congress has signalled scepticism of a deal with Mexico alone. In the same tweet, Mr Trump warned Congress not to interfere, saying he would simply “terminate” NAFTA otherwise.

16. A huge fire has engulfed Brazil’s National Museum in Rio de Janeiro, probably destroying most or all of its millions of artefacts, including the oldest known human fossil to be found in Brazil. The museum, two centuries old, is said to have been neglected by successive governments, but the cause of the fire is unknown.

    engulf:to completely surround or cover something

    The building was engulfed in flames.

    artefact:an object such as a tool, weapon etc that was made in the past and is historically important

17. A car bomb killed six people in central Mogadishu, Somalia’s capital, tearing the roof off a mosque and destroying a nearby Koranic school. Al-Shabaab, a jihadist group which has led an insurgency against Somalia’s government for years, claimed responsibility. Somali forces are due to take over from an African Union force protecting the government, but questions about their readiness remain.

    tear:to pull something violently from a person or place

    A bridge was torn from the bank by the floodwaters.

    High winds nearly tore the roof off the house.

    readiness:when you are prepared for something, or when something is ready to be used

    They stacked the firewood in readiness for the evening campfire.

18. Investigators examining unusual symptoms afflicting American diplomats in Havana and Guangzhou believe they have identified the cause, the New York Times reported. The victims, who experienced strange sounds, pressure in their heads, nausea and other symptoms, are thought to have been targeted by microwave weapons aimed at diplomatic buildings.

    afflict:to affect someone or something in an unpleasant way, and make them suffer

19. After Fitch Ratings downgraded its outlook for Italian debt, Luigi Di Maio, Italy’s deputy prime minister, said the country would listen to Italians over rating agencies. The government, a coalition of the right-wing Northern League and the anti-establishment Five Star Movement, is grappling with a debt-to-GDP ratio of 132%, one of the highest in the EU.

20. Mark Read, the co-chief operating officer of WPP, a global advertising giant, was picked to take the top job. Sir Martin Sorrell, the founder and previous chief executive, resigned in April after allegations of misuse of company assets. WPP has been unsettled by the digital shake-up of the advertising industry.

    The company was founded as Wire and Plastic Products plc to manufacture wire shopping baskets in 1971. In 1985 Martin Sorrell, searching for a listed company through which to build a worldwide marketing services company, bought a controlling stake of just under 30% at a cost of $676,000. Sorrell had been the financial director for the advertising agency Saatchi & Saatchi from 1977 to 1985, managing its takeovers of companies in the US and the UK. The holding company was renamed WPP Group and in 1987 Sorrell became its chief executive.

    WPP plc is a British multinational advertising and public relations company with its main management office in London, England, and its executive office in Dublin, Ireland.

    WPP owns a number of advertising, public relations, media and market research networks.WPP has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. It has a secondary listing on NASDAQ.

