​       Older men are more prone to cognitive impairment from dirty air

1. LIVING under thick layers of smog is known to cause illness and reduce life expectancy. The degree to which pollution harms the mind is less clear. In theory some of the toxins that get inhaled could damage the nervous system and hamper intellect, but few studies have looked into this. One just has, however, and the results are worrying, particularly for older men.

   impairment:mental/visual/cognitive/hearing etc impairment

   a condition in which a part of a person’s mind or body is damaged or does not work well

   inhale:to breathe in air, smoke, or gas

2. The new study is by Xiaobo Zhang, Xin Zhang and Xi Chen of Peking University, in China. When Dr Zhang returned to China in 2012, after teaching in America, he found it difficult to concentrate during days when the air in Beijing was heavily polluted. He knew from previous research conducted by another lab that young students living in polluted areas performed more poorly in exams, but there was no exploration of whether this held true for a broader population and, if it did, what specific effects the toxins were having on cognitive function.

3. To find out, the team looked at tests carried out as part of the China Family Panel Studies (CFPS), a survey by Peking University. In 2010 and 2014 the same group of around 20,000 people were tested in standardised mathematics and given a verbal test in word recognition. Crucially, the CFPS logged precise information about the date and location of each test.

4. Putting this information together allowed the researchers to match test scores at each location with the local air quality as reported by the air-pollution index, a measure that rates pollution levels in different cities across China based on daily readings of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and tiny bits of particulate matter. The index ranges from zero to 500, signifying the highest level of pollution.

   sulphur:硫

   nitrogen:氮

5. As they report in *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences*, the researchers showed that chronic exposure to pollution lowered the scores on the verbal tests, and that the higher the pollution levels were the more the scores dropped. On average, an increase of 13.23 units (one standard deviation) in the pollution index over the course of three years resulted in a reduction of 1.36 points for men and 0.91 points for women, on the 34-point verbal exam. In contrast, mathematics scores were hardly altered by pollution exposure.

   course:a period of time or process during which something happens

   Over the course of the next few years, the steel industry was reorganized.

   In the course of researching customer needs, we discovered how few families have adequate life insurance.

6. The effects were particularly dramatic in older men who had no education beyond primary school. The data showed that these men lost an average of 9.18 points on the verbal exam if they were exposed to an increase of 13.23 units of pollution over three years. For men who had attended middle school at least, this loss was reduced to just 1.88 points.

7. Precisely why the mathematics scores barely changed, and why men were harmed most, remains unclear. Dr Zhang speculates that pollutant damage is probably accumulating in the white matter of the brain, which people depend upon more heavily for verbal tasks; and men have less white matter than women. It is possible, too, that men with a poor education may work outside, and are thus more exposed to air pollution. Whatever the reasons, the results ought to be food for thought in polluted cities everywhere.

   food for thought:something that makes you think carefully

   The teacher’s advice certainly gave me food for thought.

8. Experts are good at betting which scientific experiments can replicate

   EXCITING results from a scientific study are in effect meaningless if they cannot be replicated. All too often, at least in psychology experiments, that seems to be the case. A new report by a scientist who looks at this area, Brian Nosek of the University of Virginia, has once again showed that a high proportion of psychology studies failed to replicate. And this time, Dr Nosek and his colleagues may have found a shortcut to identify which fall into this category.

9. In most circumstances, a study is considered to be significant if the odds are 5%, or lower, that the result would have occurred by chance. So for every 20 studies that get published, it is reasonable to expect that one will have results that are not correct. In 2015 Dr Nosek, working with a different team, found something alarming: that a whopping 64% of 97 psychology experiments that he re-ran failed to replicate.

10. Those experiments had appeared in specialist publications. For his new work, published this week in *Nature Human Behaviour*, Dr Nosek selected experiments that had appeared in *Science* and *Nature* between 2010 and 2015. He expected replications of work in these top-tier journals to be more successful. He also re-ran them using samples that were five times larger than those of the originals to reduce the possibility of getting a different result due to chance. Although the results were better than those of the 2015 study, eight of the 21 experiments failed to replicate. Among the 13 that did, a calculation of the size of the effect the studies were examining was, on average, 75% of that in the original experiment.

11. As a psychologist himself, Dr Nosek was curious whether the research community had a sense of which sorts of experiments were likely to replicate. To this end, he found 206 social scientists (mostly psychologists and economists) via social media. Given tokens, each with a nominal value of 50 cents, the experts were invited to trade on the outcome of the re-run experiments, buying into the “shares” of studies which they thought would replicate and selling or shorting those they thought would not.

12. The social scientists were on the money. The market prices for each share associated with work that replicated all ended up being worth more than those that did not. Those owning shares in the replicating studies got paid out according to the value of the tokens they held. Stakes in the non-replicants were worth nothing. All this suggests that experts had a decent inkling ahead of time of which of the studies would not replicate, despite the peer-review process used by scientific journals to weed out experiments that might not be robust. Perhaps, then, there is a market opportunity in testing scientific results.

    inkling:a slight idea about something

    She had absolutely no inkling of what was going on.

13. A new type of motorboat takes to the water in disguise

    A STRANGE craft has been seen darting around Britain’s south coast recently. It has been causing something of a sensation among local seafarers, not least because it is painted in “dazzle” camouflage. This is composed of a series of geometric shapes and was used on vessels in the first world war to make it difficult for an enemy to estimate a ship’s speed and heading. A similar bit of subterfuge was behind the paint scheme on this mystery boat. But rather than dodging artillery shells or torpedoes, this dazzle was designed to make it hard for competitors to see details of the hull.

    dart:to move suddenly and quickly in a particular direction

    Jill darted forward and pulled him away from the fire.

    sensation:extreme excitement or interest, or someone or something that causes this

    The beauty scenes in the film caused a sensation.

    seafarer:a sailor or someone who travels regularly by ship

    camouflage:the type of green and brown clothes, paint etc that soldiers wear to make themselves more difficult to see

    The men were dressed *in camouflage* and carrying automatic weapons.

    subterfuge:a secret trick or slightly dishonest way of doing something, or the use of this

    dodge:to move quickly to avoid someone or something

    Helen clutched Edward’s arm as they *dodged* through the *traffic* .

    artillery:large guns, either on wheels or fixed in one place

    torpedo:a long narrow weapon that is fired under the surface of the sea and explodes when it hits something

    hull:the main part of a ship that goes in the water

14. That is because the vessel was a prototype of a new type of craft called the R35, developed by Princess Yachts, a producer of luxury motor yachts. (Fittingly, the company’s base in Plymouth is near the naval dockyards that did much of the wartime dazzle painting.) But the secrets behind the boat’s hull will be available for all to see when the first production R35 is unveiled at the Cannes boat show, which opens on September 11th. Its most obvious feature is a pair of retractable hydrofoils positioned near the rear of the hull.

    yacht:a large boat with a sail, used for pleasure or sport, especially one that has a place where you can sleep

15. Hydrofoils have long been used on marine craft, such as ferries, to raise the bow so that the boat skims along the surface of the water. This reduces drag which means a boat can travel more quickly, and it smooths out the ride over waves. The most extreme use of the technology occurred in the 2013 America’s Cup yacht race, when the contenders introduced hydrofoils to lift their hulls completely out of the water. These yachts appear to fly above the surface. The R35 takes a different tack, by deploying its foils to keep itself in the water.

    skim:to move along quickly over a surface, never touching it or not touching it often

    bow:the front part of a ship

    drag:the force of air that pushes against an aircraft or a vehicle that is moving forward

    The car’s rounded edges reduce drag.

    ride:a journey in a vehicle, when you are not driving

    Sammy had promised to *take* me *for a ride* in his truck.

    tack:the way you deal with a particular situation or a method that you use to achieve something

    If that doesn’t work, we’ll try *a different tack*.

    Rudy *changed tack* , his tone suddenly becoming friendly.

16. The thrill switch

    Racing yachts and speedboats are a bit like high-performance cars. Just as a vehicle designed for the racetrack can prove ungainly when driven slowly around town, boats that are honed for speed can be difficult to handle when pottering about, and vice versa. The solution in the automotive world is a system that lets a driver easily adjust the setting of things such as the suspension, throttle and steering response. On a typical high-performance car today you can flick a switch to “comfort” for a trip to the shops or “track” for a blast around the Nürburgring.

    hone:to improve your skill at doing something, especially when you are already very good at it

    He set about *honing* his *skills* as a draughtsman.

    potter:If you potter around or potter about, you do unimportant but enjoyable things, without hurrying

    I started pottering around outside, not knowing what I was doing. 

    She liked to potter in the garden.

    suspension:a part attached to the wheels of a vehicle that makes it more comfortable on roads that are not smooth

    a car with an excellent suspension system

    throttle:油门   brake:刹车

17. A similar switch can be found at the helm of the R35. It provides options for “comfort”, “sports” and one for safer handling in rough seas. Unlike most previous craft using fixed foils, those on the R35 are constantly adjusted. They remain retracted at slow speed, as when berthing in a marina. Out on the ocean, the foils deploy as speed increases. Sensors detect the position of the boat in the water, and a computer calculates 100 times a second the ideal angle at which the foils should be set to lift the bow and reduce drag. The foils also ensure that the stern remains in the optimum position in the water to improve thrust and handling. And, as both the port and the starboard foils can be adjusted independently of each other, the R35 can “lean” into a fast turn, making it highly manoeuvrable at speed.

    helm:the wheel or control which guides a ship or boat

    rough:with strong wind or storms

    The ship went down in *rough seas*.

    berth:to bring a ship into a berth, or arrive at a berth

    marina:a small port or area of water where people keep boats that are used for pleasure

    stern:the back of a ship

    thrust:the force of an engine that makes a car, train, or plane move forward

    manoeuvrable:if something, especially a vehicle, is manoeuvrable, it can be moved or turned easily

18. The use of active foils means it is easier to control the boat and more comfortable for passengers, says Paul MacKenzie, Princess’s director of product development. The company worked on the project with BAR Technologies, a firm set up by Ben Ainslie, who is leading Britain’s attempt to win the America’s Cup, which next takes place in 2021. Pininfarina, an Italian design house famous for supercars, styled the craft. The boat is also unusual because it is made from carbon-fibre composites, which means it is both stronger and 25% lighter than it would have been if constructed from fibreglass, the material mostly used for leisure craft.

19. All this makes the R35 a bit of a supercar among boats. The foils, plus twin V8 Volvo Penta petrol engines, take the boat to 50 knots (92.6kph). It also comes with a supercar price tag: around $1m, depending on specifications. Kiran Haslam, Princess’s marketing director, says the active foils could be scaled up for use on larger marine craft. But he won’t say more. Watch out for more dazzle off the south coast.