##Anti-social: Apple’s new devices
The world’s biggest listed firm today unveils three new iPhones, a new laptop, and updated iPads, wireless headphones and smart watches. Look for two things. First, an updated iPhone X will have a 6.5-inch (16.5cm) display, testing appetites for large screens. One of the biggest mass-market phones ever sold, it will come with corresponding price-tag. Apple continues to raise prices as its phones improve. This year the average iPhone will sell for $755, around a quarter more than in 2013. Second, Apple will tout its Screen Time feature, which allows users to see how often they use their phones, helping them to manage their time and know when to sign off. Apple’s boss, Tim Cook, is trying to highlight the difference between Apple and social-media firms, which have been under fire from policymakers, and prove that Apple is more interested in helping people’s digital health than keeping them addicted to their devices.
1. tout:to praise something or someone in order to persuade people that they are important or worth a lot
Nell is being touted as the next big thing in Hollywood.

##Brazilian politics
With less than a month to go before a presidential election, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who is barred from running, today endorsed Fernando Haddad as his replacement. Last week Jair Bolsonaro, his main rival, was stabbed and survived, perhaps gaining support as a result. Both are flawed candidates. Neither should have a chance. *[1]Yet Brazilians may let their justified anger over corruption blind them to other, arguably bigger, failings.*
1. [1]对腐败的愤怒蒙蔽了巴西人，使他们看不到可能的、更大的失败。

##British politics
It is common for one of Britain’s great parties to be in crisis while the other is in clover. But Britain is currently witnessing something unusual: both its main parties are in crisis at the same time, divided over their future direction, racked by factional fights and worried about leadership challenges. Moreover, the two major parties are incompetent as well as divided. The result is a negative equilibrium.
1. in clover:living comfortably because you have plenty of money
The money kept him in clover for years.
2. equilibrium:a balance between different people, groups, or forces that compete with each other, so that none is stronger than the others and a situation is not likely to change suddenly
The government is anxious not to upset the economic equilibrium.

##The road to swerve from
Three months after becoming Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad went to Beijing to say that his government was cancelling a $20bn belt-and-road project. His message was clear: Malaysia could not afford such extravagance, especially on terms skewed in China’s favour.
1. swerve:to make a sudden sideways movement while moving forwards, usually in order to avoid hitting something
The car swerved sharply to avoid the dog.
2. extravagance:Extravagance is the spending of more money than is reasonable or than you can afford.
When the company went under, tales of his extravagance surged through the industry.
Why waste money on such extravagances?
3. skew:if something skews the results of a test etc, it affects them, making them incorrect
All the people we questioned lived in the same area, which had the effect of skewing the figures.
These assumptions about Communism skewed American foreign policy for decades.

##Acting local: sub-national climate policy
With national governments dragging their heels on climate action, local authorities are stepping in. Today hundreds of mayors, regional leaders and chief executives descend on San Francisco for three days of summitry hosted by California’s governor, Jerry Brown. They will showcase their commitments—the UN counts more than 12,500 by some 2,500 cities, 200 regions, 2,100 firms and 500 investors—and compare notes on how to report, monitor and reconcile municipal and regional targets. Expect pledges on everything from electrification of public buses to decarbonising power grids. (California itself promised to get all its electricity from non-fossil-fuel sources by 2045.) How much good these promises can do in the absence of national action is less clear. According to one recent study, after stripping out overlaps between cities, regions and firms, their combined commitments would shave less than 3% from global emissions by 2030, a tenth of what is needed to avert climate catastrophe.
1. drag your feet/heels:to take too much time to do something because you do not want to do it
The authorities are dragging their feet over banning cigarette advertising.
2. descend on:突然到访
3. showcase:an event or situation that is designed to show the good qualities of a person, organization, product etc
The new musical is a good showcase for her talents.
She wants to showcase African-American literature.