##Marc Benioff is the latest tech billionaire to buy a famous magazine
On September 16th Marc Benioff, a co-founder of Salesforce.com, a cloud-software company, and his wife, Lynne Benioff, purchased Time for $190m. They are the latest in a series of tech billionaires to invest in print journalism, following Jeff Bezos, the boss of Amazon, who bought the Washington Post in 2013, and Laurene Powell Jobs, widow of Steve, Apple’s co-founder, who took a majority stake in the Atlantic last year. Each has avowed a civic interest in supporting journalism, not meddling in it.
1. Marc Benioff 和妻子Lynne Benioff 买下时代周刊，Jeff Bezos买下华盛顿邮报，Laurene Powell Jobs买下大西洋月刊的多数股权

Mr Benioff might be able to help. He is hailed as a master marketer and salesman (some call it “marc-eting”). *[1]He reportedly wants staff at **Time** to ponder what the publication should look like in 2040.* But even if they fail to work that out, with his resources (about $7bn) at least Time should still be around 22 years from now—*[2]which was not something that seemed as likely before this week’s news*.
1. [1]据报道他让时代周刊想象2040年出版业的模样
2. [2]这在之前都不太可能发生

In the meantime, the Benioffs are taking on some political risk. As the owner of a prominent media property he, like Mr Bezos, may well draw the ire of President Donald Trump. Shareholders in Salesforce might worry about retaliation. The Benioffs declared upon purchase that they would not be involved in the day-to-day operations of the magazine. That may not matter if unflattering images of the president appear on the cover.
1. the Benioffs声明将不参与时代周刊的日常运营

Marc Benioff（from wikipedia）:
During his time at USC, he had internships as an assembly language programmer at the Macintosh division of Apple Computer, where he was inspired by the company and its co-founder, Steve Jobs.
Benioff expected to continue programming after college, but USC professors advised him to obtain customer-oriented work experience and Benioff joined Oracle Corporation after graduation in a customer-service role. Prior to founding Salesforce, he was at Oracle for 13 years in a variety of executive positions in sales, marketing, and product development. At 23, he was named Oracle's Rookie of the Year and three years later, he was promoted to vice president, the company's youngest person to hold that title.
On March 17, 2017, Benioff was included in a business leaders' symposium organized by the Trump Administration during German Chancellor Angela Merkel's visit to the White House.
Benioff supported Hillary Clinton for President of the United States in the 2016 presidential election.
