##How the yuan sets the tone in currency markets
Much of what central banks do is now telegraphed well in advance. Despite the occasional absurdities involved in giving fine-grained “forward guidance”, the Federal Reserve, the ECB and others have trained investors to know when to expect an increase in interest rates. Indeed, central-bank watching is no longer just concerned with clues about the timing of interest-rate changes or plans for bond purchases or sales. *[1]It has reached a more elevated plane, where statements by central bankers are parsed for signs of what they might soon say about what they may eventually do.*
1. [1]它已经达到一个更高的层面，在那里，央行行长们的声明被解读，以寻找他们可能很快会说些什么，他们可能最终会做些什么。
2. plane:a level or standard of thought, conversation etc
The two newspapers are on completely different intellectual planes.
两份报纸的文化层次完全不同。

It is still a long way from being a global currency. The yuan has not made great strides as a trading or reserve currency. The dollar is still king. Of the $5trn traded in currency markets each day, the dollar is on one side of the exchange in almost nine out of ten transactions. Crude oil is priced in dollars. The bonds issued by countries and by globalised firms are likely to be in dollars if they are not in their home currency. And the dollar accounts for two-thirds of foreign-exchange reserves. The yuan barely registers.
China looms large as an importer and exporter. It is the largest trading partner for almost every country on the planet. But the trade it dominates is priced, invoiced and settled mostly in the currency of America. Indeed, such was the importance of exports to China’s economy that, until quite recently, the yuan’s value was pegged tightly to the dollar.
1. 美元的强势地位。人民币成为全球货币还有很长的路要走

Off the peg
But no longer.*[2] Since August 2015 the yuan has ostensibly been managed by reference to a broad basket of currencies. In principle this is so the yuan’s value can better reflect economic forces. In practice it simply allows the yuan to move in a wider range against the dollar*, says Mansoor Mohi-uddin of NatWest Markets. Even this has limits. If the yuan strengthens too quickly, it will hurt China’s exports. If it weakens too much, the dollar debts of Chinese firms become more onerous. A sharp drop might spark devaluation fears and capital flight.
1. [2]2015年8月以来，人民币表面上是通过参考一篮子货币来管理的。理论上人民币的价值可以更好地反映经济实力；实践中，它只是允许人民币对美元进行更大范围的波动。

Yet in one regard, the yuan’s influence is increasingly felt. *[3]Almost as soon as the yuan was allowed to float a little more freely, the currencies of economies that do a lot of trade with China began to move in tandem with it. The euro-dollar exchange rate, for instance, has closely tracked changes in the dollar-yuan rate recently *(see chart). When the yuan weakened against the dollar in 2016, the euro fell to a low of $1.05. When the yuan rallied last year, so did the euro. This co-movement is probably not a coincidence, says Kit Juckes, of Société Générale, because the currencies of China’s other big trading partners show the same pattern. When the yuan moves up or down, other currencies follow it.
1. [3]几乎只要人民币被允许更自由浮动一点，与中国进行大量贸易的经济体的货币就开始与之同步。例如，欧元兑美元汇率最近一直在密切跟踪美元兑人民币汇率的变化。

*[4]China’s pull must now be reckoned with when thinking about the outlook for currency markets. A typical long-range forecast for the euro is $1.30, some 10% higher than where it trades now.* That forecast is close to estimates of the euro’s purchasing-power parity, the exchange rate that would make the price of a basket of goods the same in Europe as in America. It seems a natural rate for the euro to gravitate towards. But it will be hard for it to reach that level unless China’s policymakers allow the yuan to rise against the dollar. And who can say with confidence that they will?
1. [4]在考虑外汇市场的前景时，中国的影响力现在必须被考虑。对欧元的一个典型的长期预测是1欧元兑1.3美元，比现在的交易价格高出约10%（欧元现价 1 euro=1.18 dollar）。