##A manifesto for renewing liberalism
For The Economist this is profoundly worrying. We were created 175 years ago to campaign for liberalism—not the leftish “progressivism” of American university campuses or the rightish “ultraliberalism” conjured up by the French commentariat, but **[1]a universal commitment to individual dignity, open markets, limited government and a faith in human progress** brought about by debate and reform.
1. [1]*The Economist*的立场:对个人尊严、开放市场、有限政府和对人类进步的信心的普遍认同
2. *wikipedia*的解释:*The Economist* takes an editorial stance of classical and economic liberalism that **[2]supports free trade, globalisation, free immigration, and cultural liberalism (such as supporting legal recognition for same-sex marriage or drug liberalisation)**. The publication has described itself as "...**a product of the Caledonian liberalism of Adam Smith and David Hume**".
[2]支持自由贸易、全球化、移民自由、文化自由主义（比如支持同性恋，嗑药自由），Adam Smith 和David Hume 的苏格兰自由主义产物。

Our founders would be astonished at how life today compares with the poverty and the misery of the 1840s. **[3]Global life expectancy in the past 175 years has risen from a little under 30 years to over 70.** The share of people living below the threshold of extreme poverty has fallen from about 80% to 8% and the absolute number has halved, even as the total living above it has increased from about 100m to over 6.5bn. And literacy rates are up more than fivefold, to over 80%. Civil rights and the rule of law are incomparably more robust than they were only a few decades ago. In many countries individuals are now free to choose how to live—and with whom.
1. [3]175年前全球平均寿命还不到30岁.

Laurels, but no rest
**[4]Yet political philosophies cannot live by their past glories: they must also promise a better future.** And here liberal democracy faces a looming challenge. Western voters have started to doubt that the system works for them or that it is fair. In polling last year just 36% of Germans, 24% of Canadians and 9% of the French thought that the next generation would be better off than their parents. Only a third of Americans under 35 say that it is vital they live in a democracy; the share who would welcome military government grew from 7% in 1995 to 18% last year. Globally, according to Freedom House, an NGO, civil liberties and political rights have declined for the past 12 years—in 2017, 71 countries lost ground while only 35 made gains.
1. [4]然而，政治哲学不能沉浸在属于过去的荣耀里：还必须许诺一个更美好的未来。

The foundations of liberty
Liberals have forgotten that their founding idea is civic respect for all. Our centenary editorial, written in 1943 as the war against fascism raged, set this out in two complementary principles. The first is freedom: that it is “not only just and wise but also profitable…to **[5]let people do what they want.**” The second is the common interest: that “human society…can be an association for the welfare of all.”
1. [5]isn't it：If someone doesn't want to do something, he can.