##Tiger burning bright: the Ryder Cup
Though it is a rare opportunity to watch golfers compete in teams, all eyes will be on one player. *[1]Tiger Woods was supposed to be attending as a non-playing vice captain, an advisory role for stalwarts in the twilight of their careers.* Ten years have passed since the 42-year-old won the last of his 14 major championships. After a fourth back operation last year left him barely able to walk, few expected him to return to those heights. But this year he has finished sixth at the British Open, second at the PGA championship, and won the final tour event of 2018. He is one of 12 Americans aiming for a first win on European turf in 25 years. The match-play format is something of a lottery: in head-to-head singles matches, the higher ranked player has only won 52% of points. But no European will fancy a scrap with Tiger.
1. [1]泰格伍兹本应作为一名不上场的副队长，在职业生涯的暮光期担任顾问角色。stalwart 不知如何翻译是好
2. stalwart:someone who is very loyal to a particular organization or set of ideas, and works hard for them
Rob’s a stalwart of the school’s chess club.

##One week only: forbidden love
In April “Rafiki”, the first Kenyan movie to premiere at Cannes Film Festival, was banned by the country’s film classification board. The tale of two high-school girls, who fall in love while their fathers, bitter rivals, contest an election, was deemed to be “promoting lesbianism” by the authorities. *[2]They declared it an affront to the “dominant values of the Kenyan society”—where same-sex relationships are illegal and carry a punishment of up to 14 years in jail.* But this week, after Wanuri Kahiu, the director, challenged the ban as a violation of her right to free speech, a judge permitted the film to be shown, albeit briefly (making it eligible for the Best Foreign Language category at the Oscars). Day-time screenings in Nairobi have shown all week to sold-out audiences, clapping and cheering the sweet romantic story of young love triumphing over prejudice. Hopefully life will soon imitate art.
1. affront:a remark or action that offends or insults someone
2. [2]他们宣称这是对“肯尼亚社会的主流价值观”的侮辱——在那里，同性关系是非法的，会被处以最高14年的监禁。

##Shan Tianfang
His favourite stories were always the classics, not least China’s four great novels: the medieval “Romance of the Three Kingdoms”, “The Journey to the West”, where an intrepid monk went searching for Buddhist texts, “The Dream of the Red Chamber”, in which 40 main characters portrayed a noble family’s 18th-century decline, and “Water Margin”, with its wild band of 108 scheming outlaws. Some stories had hundreds of chapters, each ending with a coy “To be continued”. As a keen student of history he altered some tales a bit, playing down the demons and spirits and giving his listeners, instead, characters that made sense. He also turned recent events into stories, poring over newspapers, as soon as the sun came up, to find reports of policemen foiling notorious robbers. Fighters against injustice touched a soft spot with him: the wrongly court-martialled General Sheng of “I Know Your Name Well”, or the “White-Eyebrow Hero” Lord Bao, China’s most righteous judge, whose story he had been telling all and sundry since he was five years old.
1. 三国演义：Romance of the Three Kingdoms
西游记：The Journey to the West
红楼梦：The Dream of the Red Chamber
水浒传：Water Margin
白眉大侠中的包青天：“White-Eyebrow Hero” Lord Bao
2. General Sheng of “I Know Your Name Well” 
这是什么作品？