##History has not been kind to countries' attempts at hoarding intellectual property
Politicians and the security establishment have a grander aim: regulating the flow of ideas to preserve American technological supremacy. History is not encouraging. At any point in time an elite group of firms in a particular country are on the frontier of innovation. Businesses and governments in poorer places try to catch up, because that is the best way to get rich. *[1]According to the IMF, the absorption of foreign IP explains 40% of the growth in labour productivity in emerging economies between 2004 and 2014.* The incentives for such countries are so powerful that **hoarding** ideas away from them is like clutching a wet bar of soap.
1. 据IMF统计，在2004年至2014年期间，新兴经济体劳动生产率增长的40%来自外国知识产权的引进。
2. hoard:to collect and save large amounts of food, money etc, especially when it is not necessary to do so
families who hoarded food during the strike

Thus in the Anglo-French wars of the 1700s France recruited British defectors to unlock the secrets of coal technologies. In the subsequent century America stole British designs for looms and trains. Japan mimicked the West during the Meiji Restoration. South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore industrialised by buying and stealing Western ideas on everything from ships to chips. Cries of foul play from the global hegemon are to be expected. In the case of Britain, it passed an act against economic espionage in 1719. In the 1980s Caspar Weinberger, America’s defence secretary, fretted about the haemorrhaging of high-tech ideas to the Soviet Union, which had a wishlist for its spies called the Red Book.
1. 知识产权剽窃史

Despite this, the Soviets did less for computers than Steve Wozniak in the Jobs family’s garage. To take off, after all, foreign ideas need to be absorbed and commercialised by firms and entrepreneurs. *One channel is contractual relationships, such as foreign direct investment or licensing. Another is persistent theft. But often there is a grey area that includes reverse-engineering products, tips from suppliers and headhunting experts from rivals.* Globalisation and the web have deepened all these channels. Companies’ IP is more scattered owing to global production chains. A global jobs market exists for technical experts and armies of students learn abroad.
1. 知识产权的引进方式，一是通过订立合同关系比如直接投资或者授权使用，二是持续的盗窃。但更常见的方式是逆向工程产品、供应商的提示和从竞争对手挖角。

America’s economy is shifting further towards intangibles. The administration and bosses are right that China has misbehaved. But ideas are harder to police than gearboxes and coils of steel. *The solution is a global regime that permits the flow of ideas, prohibits theft, offers a framework for pricing IP and sees that rules are enforced. A next-generation global trade treaty, in other words.* Sadly, this is exactly the multilateral approach to trade that America has rejected. Not one of its best ideas.
1. 解决方案是制定全球性的制度，允许思想的流动，禁止偷窃，提供一个知识产权定价机制，并执行这种制度。换句话说，下一代全球贸易条约。