​       Business this week

1. The government of *Argentina* introduced a package of emergency measures to try to shore up the plummeting peso, which has lost more than 50% of its value against the dollar this year. Mauricio Macri, the president, announced an austerity plan and new taxes on exports as he pledged to reduce the budget deficit. The moves came after the central bank raised its main interest rate to 60% from 45%. The measures are designed in part to speed up disbursements from a $50bn credit deal that has been agreed with the IMF. 

   shore:to help or support something that is likely to fail or is not working well

   attempts to shore up the struggling economy

2. In a flap

   *Turkey’s* central bank said that its monetary stance would be “adjusted” at its meeting this month, a hint that it will raise interest rates despite intense political opposition. Turkey’s annual inflation rate soared to 17.9% in August, far above the bank’s official target of 5%. In an effort to halt the slide of the lira, the government reduced taxes on lira deposits and increased them on foreign-currency holdings. 

3. The spread on *Italy’s* ten-year government-bond yield over its German equivalent hit a level last seen during the euro crisis. Fitch, a ratings agency, changed its outlook on Italy to negative from stable. Investors are nervous that Italy’s forthcoming budget will breach European Union rules that set deficit ceilings at 3% of GDP. Responding to those concerns Matteo Salvini, Italy’s populist deputy prime minister, backed away from previous comments and reassured markets that Italy would respect those deficit limits.

4. *Mark Carney* said that he was prepared to stay on as governor of the Bank of England beyond his scheduled end-date of June 2019 in order to “promote a smooth Brexit and an effective transition” at the central bank. Britain will leave the EU in March next year. Speculation had mounted in recent weeks that the government would ask Mr Carney to stay on for another year.

5. *Funding Circle*, a peer-to-peer lender based in London, launched an IPO to raise £300m ($390m), which would value it at more than £1.5bn. The firm has arranged loans to 50,000 small companies in Britain, America, Germany and the Netherlands and is at the forefront of London’s growing fintech industry.

6. *Wonga*, Britain’s biggest payday lender, went into administration following a surge in compensation claims from disgruntled customers. The firm had struggled after tougher payday-lending rules were introduced in 2015, including a cap on the interest charged. Liquidators were appointed to wind down Wonga’s British business (existing customers will still have to repay loans). Its overseas operations will continue.

   liquidator:an official whose job is to close a company and use any money obtained to pay its debts

   wind down:to gradually reduce the work of a business or organization so that it can be closed down completely

7. Things go better with Coke

   Whitbread, a British hotels-and-restaurants group, announced the sale of its *Costa Coffee* chain to *Coca-Cola* for £3.9bn ($5bn). Whitbread acquired Costa in 1995 for £19m when it had only 39 shops. It now has over 3,800 in 31 countries and operates thousands of vending machines.

8. Jack Dorsey, the chief executive of *Twitter*, and Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of *Facebook*, faced a grilling on Capitol Hill (Alphabet’s boss was also asked to appear but did not attend). Both reiterated that their social-media platforms have taken significant steps to curb fake news and thwart foreign groups trying to interfere in elections. But Jeff Sessions, America’s attorney-general, said he was considering investigating big tech companies over antitrust issues and an alleged bias against conservative views on their platforms. 

   grill:to ask someone a lot of questions about something

   She never grilled her husband about his work.

   reiterate:to repeat a statement or opinion in order to make your meaning as clear as possible

9. *Amazon’s* market capitalisation briefly rose above $1trn, making it the second American company to achieve that milestone, after Apple.

10. *Tencent’s* share price fell sharply after the Chinese government proposed limiting the use of video games. The edict said that the popularity of gaming among the young was storing up problems and suggested the number of new games and the amount of time that children can play them would both be restricted. Games account for a large chunk of Tencent’s sales.

11. Three years of losses, which have caused its share price to slump and market capitalisation to shrink, will see *Deutsche Bank* removed from the Euro Stoxx 50, according to reports. The Euro Stoxx 50 is Europe’s leading blue-chip index. It is tracked by many passive-investment funds, which would have to ditch Deutsche’s shares.

12. New York loses its Voice

    The *Village Voice* ceased publication, 63 years after it was founded as a newspaper for New York’s artistic community. The *Voice* stopped publishing in print last year, running an online-only version. But that was not enough to make up for the loss of revenue from classified ads. At its peak it had a weekly circulation of 250,000 copies.



    Politics this week

13. The Senate Judiciary Committee began its hearing into *Brett Kavanaugh’s* nomination to the Supreme Court. Calls by the Democrats for the White House to release more documents relating to Mr Kavanaugh’s work for George W. Bush fell on deaf ears (over 1m pages have already been released, more than for any previous Supreme Court nominee). Democratic senators griped about the vetting process and activists disrupted the hearing, but Mr Kavanaugh is likely to be confirmed.

    fall on deaf ears:没有被听取，未被理睬

14. Rahm Emanuel, a fiscally sober Democrat, said he would not seek a third term as mayor of *Chicago* next year. He had been expected to run again, but despite an impressive economic record has grown unpopular because of rampant gun crime and the police’s reaction to it.

    rampant:if something bad, such as crime or disease, is rampant, there is a lot of it and it is very difficult to control

15. There was another upset in a *Democratic primary*, this time in Boston, where Ayanna Pressley defeated Michael Capuano, who has held his seat for 20 years and had the support of the city’s political establishment. Ms Pressley is likely to win at November’s mid-terms, which would make her the first black woman from Massachusetts to sit in the House of Representatives.

16. Donald Trump threatened that “Canada will be out” of the *North American Free Trade Agreement* if it does not agree to a “fair deal” for the United States. The president also told Congress not to interfere with his dealmaking. Some Republicans have said they will not countenance a new NAFTA pact that excludes Canada. Talks resumed between the two countries.

    countenance:to accept, support, or approve of something



    Nigeria’s scourge

17. Guerrillas aligned to Boko Haram, a jihadist group that opposes secular education, killed dozens of *Nigerian* soldiers in an attack on a base in Zari, near the border with Niger. Boko Haram has intensified its attacks on the army in the past few months.

18. *Syrian* government troops massed near Idlib province, the last major rebel stronghold. They are expcted to attack it within days. Massacres are expected, and civilians have no obvious place to flee.

19. *South Africa’s* economy fell into recession after contracting for a second consecutive quarter in the three months to June. The weak economy may hinder reform efforts by Cyril Ramaphosa, who took over as president in February, after years of mismanagement and corruption under his predecessor, Jacob Zuma. 

    contract:to become smaller or narrower

    The economy has contracted by 2.5% since last year.

20. Fighting between rival militias in Tripoli, the capital of *Libya*, left dozens of people dead. The clashes for turf are between armed groups that ostensibly support the UN-backed government.

    turf:an area that you think of as being your own

    How vigorously will the local companies defend their turf?

    We beat Canada on their home turf.

21. Lost treasures

    A huge fire consumed *Brazil’s* National Museum in Rio de Janeiro. No one was hurt, but the fire destroyed most of the 20m treasures inside, including dinosaur bones and the oldest human fossil found in the Americas. What caused it is unknown, but shoddy maintenance, a minuscule budget and years of neglect have taken their toll. It was the third major blaze at a Brazilian cultural institution in eight years.

    shoddy:made or done cheaply or carelessly

    We’re not paying good money for shoddy goods.

22. Jimmy Morales, *Guatemala’s* president, revoked the mandate of the UN-sponsored International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala, known as CICIG. The body has helped Guatemala crack down on drug cartels and investigated high-profile corruption, leading to the prosecution of a former president. Mr Morales is himself under investigation and had tried to oust the commission’s head.

    revoke:to officially state that a law, decision, or agreement is no longer effective

    Their work permits have been revoked.

23. The evidence is in

    Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister, accused *Russia’s* military intelligence service (GRU) of being responsible for the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in a quiet English cathedral town in March. Describing in detail the police investigation, she named the two would-be assassins, and noted that the operation was “almost certainly also approved outside the GRU at a senior level of the Russian state”. She pledged to bring the two agents before British courts if they are ever caught outside Russia. 

24. A second weekend of anti-migrant demonstrations took place in Chemnitz, in the *German* state of Saxony, in response to the stabbing of a German man.

25. *Catalonia’s* leader, Quim Torra, called on the government in Madrid to allow a referendum on independence, rejecting an offer from Spain’s prime minister for a vote on greater autonomy.

26. A day to remember

    *India’s* Supreme Court legalised homosexuality, a historic decision that brings an end to fraught and lengthy legal battles that started in the 1990s. The ruling overturns a verdict in 2013 that upheld a law from the days of the British Raj criminalising gay sex. 

    uphold:to defend or support a law, system, or principle so that it continues to exist

27. Xi Jinping announced another $60bn in investment and aid to Africa at the triennial meeting of the Forum on China-Africa Co-operation in Beijing. Delegations from 53 *African countries* attended. Since the first summit in 2000, China has become Africa’s most important trading partner.

28. The UN held an emergency meeting to discuss an outbreak of *swine fever* in China. The highly contagious virus is not dangerous to humans but can wipe out pig populations, which could do great damage to China’s vast pork industry. And the virus could easily spread to other countries. 

    contagious:a disease that is contagious can be passed from person to person by touch

29. In *Myanmar*, two journalists working for Reuters, a news agency, were sentenced to seven years in prison, after reporting on the genocide against Rohingya Muslims. They were convicted of illegal possession of official secrets, though the documents in question were in fact public, and had been given to them by police. Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar’s Nobel peace-prize-winning leader, did not condemn the stitch-up.

    stitch-up:a matter that has been prearranged clandestinely

30. Japan’s most powerful storm in 25 years, *Typhoon Jebi*, left a trail of destruction, killing 11 people and shutting Osaka’s international airport. At least 400,000 homes lost power.

31. The International Olympic Committee dashed the hopes of video-gamers when its president, Thomas Bach, said that *electronic sports* promote violence and contradict Olympic values. E-sport events were held at the recent Asian Games. But although the noble art of karate is being added to the 2020 Olympic games in Tokyo, which will also include boxing, judo, shooting and wrestling, e-sports have now been given the chop.

    dash:to disappoint someone by telling them that what they want is not possible

    chop:if something gets or is given the chop, it is closed or stopped because people do not want to pay for it any more

    The project might get the chop.

    This factory might now be *for the chop*.



    Lessons from the destruction of the National Museum of Brazil

32. ON THE night of September 2nd a fire consumed the National Museum of Brazil in Rio de Janeiro, destroying most of its 20m or so artefacts. Among the treasures incinerated were Egyptian mummies, frescoes from Pompeii, the 11,500-year-old skeleton of “Luzia” (the oldest human remains in the Americas) and a vast South American collection from the pre-Columbian era to the present day. Brazil’s president, Michel Temer, called the loss “incalculable”. But it was not unpredictable.

    incinerate:to burn something completely in order to destroy it

    fresco:a painting made on a wall while the plaster is still wet

33. More than a decade ago, inspectors had pointed to the museum’s ropy electrical wiring. Its director had complained of termites and closed a third of the exhibition rooms. It was running on an annual budget more suitable for a parish church: less than 0.01 per artefact, only some of which was ever disbursed. Despite the risk of keeping a collection of irreplaceable objects in what those inspectors called a firetrap, officials and politicians rebuffed generous offers of financial help. The World Bank offered $80m, but on condition that the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro gave up control of the museum. It refused.

    ropy:ADJ inferior or inadequatea  SYN:shoddy

    firetrap:a building that would be very difficult to escape from if a fire started there

34. Brazilians are furious, and full of promises to do better. That should be the world’s reaction, too. The loss of a great national museum is a global tragedy. It erases a chunk of the past, depriving future generations of the chance to study, appreciate and learn from it. The fire in Rio should spark a debate about how the world can protect its treasures.

35. There are plenty of museums, especially in developing countries, that are cash-strapped, badly run or vulnerable for other reasons. Syria’s antiquities have been devastated by its civil war. Cairo’s Egyptian Museum, stuffed with Pharaonic relics, can barely keep track of its inventory and was looted during the Arab spring. In many places the budget for preserving the past is meagre to begin with, and cut ferociously when times are hard. Outsiders should help.

    antiquity:a building or object made in ancient times

    ferocious:violent, dangerous, and frightening

    The storm grew more and more ferocious with each second.

    meagre:a meagre amount of food, money etc is too small and is much less than you need

36. This is exactly the sort of thing that the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) ought to be doing. Alas, the agency is notoriously ineffectual. Until the UN gets its act together, the task of preventing future bonfires of history will fall largely to private philanthropists, who can stump up cash, and to museums in the rich world. The biggest and oldest of these, such as the British Museum and the Louvre in Paris, have often been excoriated for keeping treasures stolen from former colonial subjects. Before considering that (France’s president, Emmanuel Macron, has promised to return some artefacts), such museums should offer to share more of their expertise.

    ineffectual:not having the ability, confidence, or personal authority to get things done

    She remembered her ineffectual efforts to comfort him.

    philanthropist:慈善家

    stump up:to pay money, even if it is difficult or when you do not want to

    We stumped up eight quid each.

    excoriate:to express a very bad opinion of a book, play etc

    an excoriating review in ‘The Times’



    Learn history, don’t burn it

37. First, they should offer advice about strengthening museum governance. The most successful institutions have independent boards of trustees who raise private money and insist on high standards—the museum in Rio had neither. Second, they can help museums digitise their collections. This is partly a safeguard: objects that have been recorded digitally can be virtually resurrected even if they are physically destroyed. It also allows museums to display objects free online, as the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam has done. This is hugely appealing to visitors who cannot visit in person. Third, they can help train curators and conservators in state-of-the-art methods. A good start would be to help the curators in Rio crowdsource images of the collection to create a virtual-reality museum, as happened with Mosul Museum in Iraq, whose treasures were smashed by Islamic State in 2015. Great museums are for everyone; it is in everyone’s interest to look after them.

    resurrect:to bring back an old activity, belief, idea etc that has not existed for a long time

    another failed attempt to resurrect his career

    curator:someone who is in charge of a museum or zoo

    state-of-the-art:using the most modern and recently developed methods, materials, or knowledge

    His new laptop is state-of-the-art.