##Privacy please: regulating tech firms
Today the Senate’s committee on commerce, science and transportation holds hearings on privacy and companies’ data collection. Executives from six firms, including Google, Amazon, AT&T and Apple, will testify (oddly, no consumer-privacy advocate will serve as a witness). America is searching for a way to protect privacy without stifling innovation. This year a scandal involving Facebook drew attention to the social-media platform’s invasive data-collection. America relies largely on self-regulation. Europe, however, has its stringent General Data Protection Regulation, allowing consumers to opt out of tracking and data collection. America could benefit from a similar law; California has already passed one, which will catalyse national politicians to take the issue seriously. Unusually, America’s two warring political parties agree: *[1]the days of letting the titans of tech do anything they like are past*. It is possible to imagine some serious legislation down the road. Today’s exploratory hearing is just the start.
1. [1]科技巨头为所欲为的日子一去不复返了

##The global bogeyman: tuberculosis
More people die from the disease than from AIDS and malaria combined. Last year the bacteria-borne scourge killed around 1.6m people and infected 10m. Yet tuberculosis does not attract attention or money proportionate to its lethality. Investments from low- and middle-income countries, accounting for 95% of all TB deaths, were $3.5bn below what was needed this year. The United Nations wants to fix that with its first-ever TB summit at its headquarters in New York today. Patients are in for a long haul: they need daily monitoring for up to six months to prevent a relapse. Antibiotic-resistant strains are emerging, too. A report published by the World Health Organisation this month shows that TB cases are falling at a slower rate than previously expected. Under-reporting and misdiagnosis are also common. *[2]The UN is quite right to call for “an urgent global response to a global epidemic”*.
1. tuberculosis:肺结核
2. bogeyman:可怕的人或物
3. [3]联合国呼吁“对全球流行病采取紧急应对措施”，这是完全正确的。

Donald Trump defended his trade war with China, his negotiations with North Korea and his walking out on the nuclear deal with Iran (*[3]a country that sows “chaos, death and destruction”*) in a speech to the United Nations. He added that he had done more than almost any administration in history. “So true,” he self-affirmed, as the assembly laughed.
1. [3]伊朗被描述成这样一个国家

Dieter Zetsche, Daimler’s chief executive, said he would step down next year. He will be replaced by Ola Kaellenius, the current head of development. The German carmaker, like many of its competitors, has a tricky road to navigate as Europe implements tougher emissions standards. *[4]This year Daimler recalled 774,000 cars that had been fitted with devices that manipulated emissions-test results.*
1. [4]今年，戴姆勒召回了77.4万辆汽车，这些汽车安装了操纵排放测试结果的设备。

*[5]Banco Santander poached Andrea Orcel from UBS to become its next chief executive.* The hiring of the smooth-talking dealmaker could signal the Spanish bank’s intent to expand through acquisitions. Mr Orcel may also want to focus on capital markets, to diversify away from retail banking. *[6]Investors hope he can find traction for a bank that has been spinning its wheels.*
1. [5]桑坦德银行从瑞银挖来了安德烈亚•奥塞尔，成为下一任首席执行官。
2. [6]投资者希望他能找到银行持续发展的驱动力。