##How a shampoo bottle is saving young lives
ON HIS first night as a trainee paediatrician in Sylhet, Bangladesh, Mohamad Chisti (pictured above) watched three children die of pneumonia. Oxygen was being delivered to them, through a face mask or via tubes placed near their nostrils, using what is called a basic “low-flow” technique which followed World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines for low-income countries. But it was clearly failing. He decided to find a better way.
1. trainee:someone who is being trained for a job
2. paediatrician:a doctor who deals with children and their illnesses
3. pneumonia:a serious illness that affects your lungs and makes it difficult for you to breathe
She was taken to hospital, suffering from pneumonia.
4. nostril:one of the two holes at the end of your nose, through which you breathe and smell things
The smell of gunpowder filled his nostrils.

Last year 920,000 children under the age of five died of pneumonia, making it the leading killer of people in that age group. This figure is falling (in 2011 it was 1.2m), but it still represents 16% of all infant deaths.*[2] Such deaths are not, however, evenly distributed.* In Bangladesh pneumonia causes 28% of infant mortality.
1. [2]然而，这样的死亡率并不是均匀分布的。
2. mortality:the number of deaths during a particular period of time among a particular type or group of people
Mortality from heart disease varies widely across the world.

Pneumonia is a result of bacterial, viral or fungal infection of the lungs. Its symptoms of breathlessness result from a build-up of pus in the alveoli. These are tiny sacs, found at the ends of the branching airways within the lungs, that are richly infused with capillary blood vessels. They are the places where oxygen enters the bloodstream and carbon dioxide leaves it. Stop the alveoli doing their job and a patient will suffocate.
1. alveolus:any of the many tiny air sacs of the lungs which allow for rapid gaseous exchange.
2. sac:a part inside a plant or animal that is shaped like a bag and contains liquid or air
3. airway:the passage in your throat that you breathe through
4. capillary:the smallest type of blood vessel (= tube carrying blood ) in the body
5. suffocate:to die or make someone die by preventing them from breathing
The animal seizes its prey by the throat and suffocates it to death.

Pneumonia is particularly threatening to malnourished children—which many in Bangladesh are. First, malnourishment debilitates the immune system, making infection more likely. Second, to keep its oxygen levels up and its CO2 levels down, a child with pneumonia breathes faster and faster. But this takes a lot of energy, so undernourished infants do not have the ability to keep such an effort up for long. Dr Chisti’s device is designed to reduce the effort required to breathe, and to do so cheaply. (The reason for the WHO’s recommended approach in poor countries is that the sort of ventilator routinely available in the rich world costs around $15,000. But low-flow oxygen delivery does not reduce the effort required to breathe.)
1. malnourish:provide with insufficient quality or quantity of nourishment
2. debilitate:to make someone ill and weak
3. ventilator:呼吸机

His invention was inspired by something he saw while visiting Australia. On this trip he was introduced to a type of ventilator called a bubble-CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure), which is employed to help premature babies breathe. It channels the infant’s exhaled breath through a tube that has its far end immersed in water. The exhaled breath emerges from the tube as bubbles, and the process of bubble formation causes oscillations of pressure in the air in the tube. These feed back into the child’s lungs. That improves the exchange of gases in the alveoli and also increases the lungs’ volume. Both make breathing easier.
1. exhale:to breathe air, smoke etc out of your mouth
Take a deep breath, then exhale slowly.
2. oscillation:technical a regular change in direction of an electrical current

At about $6,000, standard bubble-CPAPs are cheaper than conventional ventilators. But that is still too much for many poor-country hospitals. However, after a second piece of serendipitous inspiration, when he picked up a discarded shampoo bottle that contained leftover bubbles, Dr Chisti realised he could probably lash together something that did the same job. Which he did, using an oxygen supply (which is, in any case, needed for the low-flow oxygen delivery method), some tubing and a plastic bottle filled with water. And it worked.
1. serendipitous:ADJ A serendipitous event is one that is not planned but has a good result.
2. lash:to tie something tightly to something else with a rope
The oars were lashed to the sides of the boat. oar:桨

In 2015 he and his colleagues published the results of a trial that they had conducted in the institution where he practises, the Dhaka Hospital of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research. This showed that the method had potential. The hospital now deploys it routinely and the number of children who die there from pneumonia has fallen by three-quarters. That means the survival rate in the Dhaka Hospital is today almost on a par with that of children treated in rich-world facilities, using conventional ventilators.
1. on a par with:和...同等,和...一样

Dr Chisti says that, as well as saving lives, his device has cut the hospital’s spending on pneumonia treatment by nearly 90%. The materials needed to make his version of a bubble-CPAP ventilator cost a mere $1.25. The device also consumes much less oxygen than a conventional ventilator. In 2013 the hospital spent $30,000 on supplies of the gas. In 2017 it spent $6,000.

The idea is spreading. Dr Chisti and his team are about to start trials of the new ventilator in a group of hospitals in Ethiopia. If it works as well there as it does in Dhaka, it will surely be taken up elsewhere. All in all, the Chisti bottle-based ventilator shows what can be achieved by stripping an idea down to its basic principles. Effectiveness, it neatly demonstrates, need not always go hand in hand with high tech.

##The fight against illicit fishing of the oceans is moving into space
ILLEGAL, unreported and unregulated. The business of off-the-books ocean fishing, abbreviated to IUU by acronym-loving international organisations, is a big one, worth many billions of dollars a year. Estimates of the annual catch landed beyond the authorities’ notice range from 11m to 26m tonnes. That is on top of an official catch of a bit under 90m tonnes a year. Given the belief of most fisheries scientists that even permitted extractions are doing great damage to marine ecosystems, this is worrying. But policing the oceans is hard, meaning that, more often than not, IUU fishermen get away with it.
1. off-the-books:黑市的，黑市
2. get away with it:做了坏事而未受惩罚，侥幸成功

This, though, is changing. New ways of watching from space may turn the tables on illicit fishing, heralding an era in which keen eyes follow every fishing boat, all the time. At the least, this will make clear who is turning a blind eye to the IUU brigade. The excuse that “we didn’t know what was going on” will become untenable.
1. turn the table:转败为胜，扭转局面
2. turn a blind eye:对...故意视而不见
3. brigade:an insulting word for a group of people who have the same beliefs
4. tenable:a belief, argument etc that is tenable is reasonable and can be defended successfully
an idea which is no longer tenable

That such an excuse is tenable at the moment reflects the deficiencies of current monitoring arrangements. These are based on a requirement for vessels at sea to have radio beacons. Large ships are supposed, by international agreement, to be fitted with what is known as the Automatic Identification System (AIS), and to keep it on all the time. Arrangements for small ones vary from country to country, but most require some sort of beacon to be fitted to craft sailing in their waters.
1. beacon:a radio or radar signal used by aircraft or boats to help them find their position and direction

The beacons’ main purpose is to avoid collisions. But monitoring them can also give away who is fishing nefariously, if you develop the software to sift through masses of location data looking for patterns. Beacon-watching has also helped identify hot spots for the transfer of catches at sea from IUU fishing boats to refrigerated cargo vessels, a practice which conceals the origin of a catch. Transshipment hotspots have been identified in this way off west Africa and Russia, and in the tropical Pacific. But beacons can be (and are) switched off. So concerned parties are looking to the heavens for an answer.
1. nefarious:evil or criminal
2. sift through:to examine information, documents etc carefully in order to find something out or decide what is important and what is not
Police are sifting through the evidence.

Enlightenment
Global Fishing Watch—a collaboration between Oceana, a conservation group, Google, a division of Alphabet, and Sky Truth, a charity that uses remote sensing to monitor environmental problems—has turned to America’s National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for help. NOAA has long collected satellite data on clouds. These are available to outsiders at no cost. The agency’s Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite consists of two sensors, each mounted on a different satellite. Between them, these sensors photograph the entire planet every 24 hours. Though their target is cloud cover, they can also see small, bright sources of light. Some of these give away the activities of fishermen. Many marine species are attracted to light, so it is common practice to shine floodlights into the water.
1. give away:PHRASAL VERB If you give away information that should be kept secret, you reveal it to other people
She would give nothing away. 

To find those illegals who do not so conveniently illuminate their activities Global Fishing Watch turns to satellite radar data. These are gathered mainly by private companies for sale to customers who want to do things like monitor the logging of forests. Global Fishing Watch, too, has to pay for them. Radar data have proved themselves useful, though. In 2016, for example, radar turned up a fleet of ships off the coast of Chile that had their AIS turned off.
1. log:to cut down trees

According to Tony Long, Global Fishing Watch’s boss, the price of commercial radar data means that the organisation has to be selective about which regions it looks at using this part of the spectrum. That, however, is changing. The European Union’s Sentinel satellites now provide radar data free of charge. Global Fishing Watch is working on an automated vessel-detection system that uses these data.

Better detection would certainly help limit IUU fishing. The Port State Measures Agreement, introduced in 2016 and now ratified by 55 countries, is supposed to stop vessels engaged in such fishing from landing their catches. But ports can act against a vessel only if they know what it has been up to. The technology being developed by Global Fishing Watch makes it possible to report offenders quickly, thus giving port authorities time to act.
1. ratify:to make a written agreement official by signing it
We hope that the republics will be willing to ratify the treaty.
2. land:if a boat or aircraft lands people or goods, it brings them to a place, and the people get out or the goods are carried out

The future, moreover, looks brighter still—or dimmer, if you are an illicit fisherman. CubeSats, satellites the size of a loaf of bread, are lowering the cost of Earth observation. This will enable organisations like Global Fishing Watch to get the data they want at an affordable price. Mr Long believes that it will soon be feasible to track all boats continuously. *[1]If the will to enforce the rules exists, IUU fishing could thus be made a thing of the past.* In many places that will does not exist. But better monitoring at least promises to make clear where commitment is lacking.
1. feasible:a plan, idea, or method that is feasible is possible and is likely to work
It was no longer financially feasible to keep the community centre open.
2. [1]如果执行这些规则的意愿存在，那么IUU捕鱼将成为往事。