##Business this week
Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger resigned from Instagram, which they founded. Instagram was bought by Facebook in 2012; Mr Systrom served as chief executive and Mr Krieger as chief technical officer. The photo-sharing app has grown snappily and now boasts 1bn monthly users. That is in contrast to Facebook, which has warned that its growth will slow as it brings in new privacy measures. Observers attributed the pair’s departure to efforts by Facebook to exercise tighter control over Instagram.
1. Kevin Systrom 和 Mike Krieger 从他们创立的Instagram离职。观察人士将这两人的离职归因于Facebook对Instagram实施地更为严格的控制。

Oil prices hit a four-year high, with Brent crude trading at around $81.30 a barrel, in reaction to the decision by OPEC and Russia to maintain current output and defy a call from President Donald Trump to ramp up production. Prospects for Iranian crude are also a factor in the price spike, as traders weigh up the consequences of sanctions that America will impose on Iran’s oil exports in November.
1. 布伦特原油价格创下4年来的新高，达到每桶81.3美元

Germany’s financial regulator, BaFin, appointed an auditor to monitor Deutsche Bank’s progress in preventing money-laundering. *[1]It is the first time BaFin has taken such a step, apparently out of frustration with Deutsche’s compliance procedures.* The bank was fined last year by American and British regulators following an investigation into Russian asset-laundering.
1. [1]这是德国联邦金融监管部门第一次采取这样的举措，显然是出于对德意志银行合规程序的失望。

Daimler announced that Dieter Zetsche will step aside as chief executive in May next year to be replaced by Ola Kaellenius, who is overseeing the carmaker’s push into electric vehicles. A Swede, Mr Kaellenius will become the first non-German to lead the company. *[2]Mr Zetsche steered the Mercedes brand as it overtook BMW in luxury-car sales; he will become chairman of the supervisory board in 2021.*
1. [2]Mr Zetsche掌舵Mercedes品牌，在豪华车销售中超越宝马。他将在2021年成为监事会主席。

BMW issued a profit warning. It blamed a number of factors, including higher costs associated with stricter emissions tests in Europe and the trade war between America and China. Cars exported from BMW’s factory in South Carolina to China have been hit by **stiff** tariffs.
1. stiff:a stiff price etc is high, especially higher than the price etc of similar things

