##America and China are in a proper trade war
Still, this diligence was not welcomed by all. More than three-quarters of the products that will be affected on September 24th are intermediate and capital goods, which means the most immediate impact will be to push up American businesses’ costs. Mr Trump’s announcement triggered complaints from industry representatives including the US Chamber of Commerce, the American Chemistry Council and the American Apparel and Footwear Association, all of which warned that *[1]Americans would end up footing the tariff bill*, and pleaded for a different approach.
1. foot the bill:to pay for something, especially something expensive that you do not want to pay for
[1]美国人最终会为关税法案买单

On September 18th Cecilia Malmström, the European Union’s trade commissioner, unveiled a “concept paper” outlining reforms *[2]that could plug some of the gaps in the WTO’s rules*, as well as ways to reform dispute settlement. But it is far from clear whether either Mr Trump or the Chinese government will take the bait.
1. plug the gap:to provide something that is needed, because there is not enough
[2]填补世贸规则中的一些空白


##Low unemployment and inflation complicate economic policymaking
The Federal Reserve has been raising its benchmark interest rate since December 2015, and will probably do so again this month, from a range of 1.75-2% to 2-2.25%.* [3]This is the central banker’s version of twiddling the bath taps, but on a national scale. It requires a delicate touch. Too much cold water, in the form of higher rates, will choke off demand and hence jobs. Too much hot, and rising inflation will eat away at people’s spending power. The aim is to find the perfect temperature, where employment is as high as it can be while inflation stays subdued.*
1. [3]央行货币政策的形象描述

But as Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, reminded his listeners in a speech in Jackson Hole on August 24th, no one knows what that perfect temperature is. Policymakers must make their best guess of what “full employment” looks like, or when the “output gap” (the difference between where the economy is and its long-run potential) is zero. Inflation and employment are affected by temporary shocks and structural shifts, as well as by economic policy. *[4]Errors take time to show up. It is as if the rate-setters must adjust the flow of hot and cold water not only without knowing what temperature is most comfortable, but also without knowing how hot the bath is to begin with—or when they will be getting in.*
1. [4]央行货币政策调控的窘境


##America’s government is putting foreign cyber-spies in the dock
These concerns are valid, but overblown. One reason is that going public can yield results when private warnings have failed. The indictment of its officers in 2014 shocked China into agreeing to a pact to rein in commercial espionage. Another factor is that America’s adversaries lack both the technical proficiency to catch it in the act and the moral high ground to embarrass it on the world stage. America may be an aggressive actor in cyberspace, but it has not vandalised movie studios or robbed banks. *[5]In choosing what to prosecute, American officials seek to draw a line between old-fashioned spying, which is seen as fair game, and piratical deeds, like election sabotage and spying for profit. Indictments, used alongside sanctions and quiet diplomacy, are a worthwhile tool in this effort to establish norms.* The aim should be cyber arms control that promotes restraint among the big powers.
1. [5]在选择起诉什么行为时，美国官员试图在旧式间谍活动和海盗行为之间划清界限，旧式间谍活动被视作公平的，海盗行为比如选举破坏和攫取不义之财。与制裁和静默外交一起使用的指控是建立规则的一个有益的工具。