##AIA Group and Prudential attest to Asia’s emergence as a force in finance
What is logical is not necessarily easy to achieve. Both firms have had to go on odysseys. AIA was founded in Shanghai in 1919 by an adventurer called Cornelius Vander Starr, and went on to be folded into AIG, a huge, rogue American financial conglomerate that got bailed out in 2008. AIA was spun out in 2010. Pru was founded in 1848 to serve the insurance needs of Britain’s middle class. Its annual report from three decades ago mentions Asia once. But in the 1990s it remembered that it had some operations in the region that were remnants of colonial times and sent out Mark Tucker, a young executive, to investigate. He ignited the business, later became boss of Pru and then AIA, and is now chairman of HSBC—one of several star executives to have been involved. Tidjane Thiam, boss of Credit Suisse, ran Pru in 2009-15.
1. 回顾AIA和PRU的历史，其中提到PRU的关键人物Mark Tucker

The result is that AIA and Pru’s Asian arm have increased their operating profits at a compound rate of 13% and 18% respectively, in dollar terms, since 2007. Two decades ago Asia represented 5% of Pru’s market value; now it is about 50%. AIA is worth twice as much as its former parent, AIG. *[1]The crumbs have become the biggest slice of the cake.* For the global life industry Asian firms now represent 49% of total market value, up from 4% two decades ago.
1. AIA和PRU在亚州的业务发展迅猛
2. [1]面包屑已经成为蛋糕中最大的一块。

One risk to them is technology. For now, customers still like dealing with a human (armed with an iPad) when signing complex policies. But startups accessing customers through their phones could make agents obsolete. Colm Kelly, an analyst at UBS, has surveyed 800 agents in Asia, and half of them think that digital distribution is a “big threat”. The management of AIA and Pru need to take this more seriously. Another danger is an economic crisis in Asia, spurred by trade wars or a sell-off in emerging markets. Insurers are inherently opaque. Still, in the 2008-09 downturn AIA and Pru Asia avoided big underwriting-and-investing banana skins, while new sales dipped only a little.
1. AIA和PRU面临的风险，一是使用新科技获取客户的方式使得原有的保险代理人模型优势不再，二是由贸易战引发的经济动荡和证券市场波动

Instead the big test may be consolidation. China is easing its rules on foreign ownership, which will prompt a reshuffle among the long tail of 26 other foreign life firms that have a presence there. Ping An and China Life may seek to buy a presence abroad. Continental Europe’s two giants, AXA and Allianz, both say that they eschew big deals, but have spare cash, half an eye on Asia and *[2]20-year records of empire-building through acquisitions*.
1. 最大的考验是并购风险
2. [2]20年来通过并购开疆拓土的记录