##Hong Kong Launches First High Speed Rail Service
note:The Guangzhou - Shenzhen  - Hong Kong high speed trains have started running as of September 23 of 2018. Since then, it takes only 14 minutes to travel by bullet train from Hong Kong to Shenzhen Futian and 23 minutes to Shenzhen North, and 47 minutes to Guangzhou. The bullet trains run between Guangzhou South Station and Kowloon West Station in Hong Kong, passing by Qingshen, Humen Town of Dongguan, Guangmingcheng, Shenzhen North Station and Futian Station. The Guangzhou - Shenzhen - Hong Kong High Speed Railway, also called Guangzhou - Shenzhen  -Hong Kong Express Rail Link, is a part of the planned Beijing - Hong Kong High Speed Railway, which was also opened on september 23 of 2018, since then the rail travel time between Hong Kong and Beijing has been cut down to about 9 hours.

WEST KOWLOON station is a gigantic new glass-and-concrete complex in Hong Kong’s commercial heart. It was designed by an American architect, Andrew Bromberg, whose futuristic creations stud the skylines of several Chinese cities. This one has the greatest symbolic importance. It is the terminus of a high-speed rail link between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland—the territory’s first with the world’s largest bullet-train network. For Chinese officials, extending super-fast lines to every corner of the country is a matter of national pride. Imagine their joy when the inaugural service leaves West Kowloon at 7am on September 23rd, after three years of delays caused by engineering difficulties and *[1]a shortage of workers*.
1. [1]香港本地劳动力不足，又长期不开放外劳，迄今香港建筑业外来劳工只有2千人，而新加坡有130万，其中70%和建造相关。

*[2]The government of Hong Kong has billed the project as an economic game-changer.* More than 600,000 people commute every day between Hong Kong and Shenzhen, a boomtown just over the border with the mainland. A trip between the two city centres currently takes at least an hour. The new link will cut the journey to 14 minutes. By ordinary rail, the journey to Beijing takes 24 hours. On the new service, it will take nine. Officials expect the project, which involved laying a 26km track to the mainland border, to turn an operating profit of HK$199m ($25m) in three months. That would be welcome. That link cost nearly HK$85bn, a third more than predicted.
1. [2]香港政府将高铁项目称为“经济领域的游戏规则改变者”。

But Hong Kongers are deeply divided. Some believe it will help the territory’s economy by bringing in more visitors. Others charge that the rail link involves an unacceptable breach of “one country, two systems”, the arrangement whereby the central government in Beijing promised Hong Kong “a high degree of autonomy” for at least 50 years after Britain handed back the territory in 1997.*[3]On matters relating to the Basic Law, the Communist Party-controlled legislature in Beijing has the final say.*
1. [3]在与基本法有关的问题上，北京方面的立法机关有最终决定权。