##Business this week
Sears filed for bankruptcy protection following a long run of losses. The retailer, which revolutionised shopping in the late 19th century with its mail-order catalogue and helped pioneer shopping malls in the mid-20th century, is to close a further 142 stores, including its Kmart brand. Over the years Sears steadily lost market share in the big-ticket goods that lured customers. It applied for Chapter 11 as the bills piled up from suppliers, some 200 of which have stopped shipping their products to the company.
1. big-ticket goods:大件商品，高价商品
2. Chapter 11:（美）联邦破产法第11章（主要是关于破产保护）

Days of wine and roses
America’s big banks reported bumper earnings for the third quarter. Net profit at JPMorgan Chase rose by 24% compared with the same three months last year, to $8.4bn. Bank of America and Wells Fargo both saw net income grow by a third, to $7.2bn and $6bn respectively. At Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs profits were up by a fifth. Citigroup made a profit of $4.6bn, an increase of 12%.
1. Days of wine and roses:醇酒与玫瑰的岁月
2. bumper:unusually large;bumper crop/harvest 大丰收

By contrast, BlackRock’s share price fell sharply after it released its quarterly earnings. Although net profit rose at the world’s biggest asset-manager, to $1.2bn,*[1] BlackRock recorded its first net outflow of client funds since mid-2015*. Most of the money was pulled by institutional investors amid a pricing war in the investment industry and disquiet in financial markets generally. The firm’s total assets under management grew to $6.4trn.
1. [1]黑石集团自2015年中期以来首次出现客户资金净流出。

Denmark’s financial regulator rejected Danske Bank’s choice for a new chief executive. The bank has become embroiled in a huge money-laundering scandal, which led to the resignation of the previous CEO. The regulator believes the next one should have more business experience.
1. 丹麦金融监管机构否决了丹麦丹斯克银行(Danske Bank)任命新首席执行官的决定。

*[2]America’s federal budget deficit amounted to $779bn for the fiscal year ending September 30th, an increase of 17% from the previous year and the largest since 2012.* That constituted 3.9% of gdp, up from 3.5% in 2017.
1. [2]在截至9月30日的财年中，美国联邦预算赤字达到了7790亿美元，比前一年增加了17%，是自2012年以来的最大增幅。

Good for workers
In Britain, wages, excluding bonuses, grew by 3.1% in the three months to August, the fastest pace since the financial crisis. The annual inflation rate dropped sharply to 2.4% in September, from 2.7% in August. Last year the growth in consumer prices outstripped that of wages, but pay started to pull ahead of inflation in February.

One of China’s largest producers of vaccines, Changsheng Biotech, was fined 9.1bn yuan ($1.3bn) by the government in relation to faulty data on vaccines for rabies. It is the biggest penalty levied on a Chinese drug firm to date. Changsheng was fined earlier this year for distributing defective children’s vaccines.
1. 长生生物科技因为狂犬病疫苗的缺陷数据被罚款91亿元人民币。

Under pressure to tackle the spread of fake news, Facebook removed more than 800 politics-related pages and accounts from its network because of “co-ordinated inauthentic behaviour”. It said the pages were removed for their owners’ conduct, not their content, but that didn’t stop accusations of censorship from activists on the left and the right of the spectrum.

Uber was reported to be firming up plans for an ipo within the next six months that could see it worth as much as $120bn, a vastly higher valuation than estimates based on recent rounds of fundraising.
1. firm sth. up:to make arrangements, ideas etc more definite and exact
We’re hoping to firm up the deal later this month. 
我们希望能在这个月晚些时候把这笔买卖确定下来。

That’s a lot of couch potatoes
Netflix said that subscriber growth in the third quarter exceeded expectations, allaying fears about its shortfall in users in the second quarter. From July to September the video-streaming company gained an additional 5.9m international customers and 1.1m in the United States, bringing its global user base to 137m viewers. It plans to spend $8bn on original content, outspending rivals such as Amazon and hbo. Entertainment over the internet is set to proliferate, with titans such as WarnerMedia and Disney preparing to stream their own content.
1. allay (sb’s) fear/concern/suspicion etc:to make someone feel less afraid, worried etc
The president made a statement to allay public anxiety.
总统发表了一项声明以缓解公众的忧虑。
2. proliferate:if something proliferates, it increases quickly and spreads to many different places
Computer courses continue to proliferate.
计算机课程层出不穷。

After being fined €4.3bn ($5bn) by the European Commission in July for abusing the market dominance of its Android operating-system, Google said it would comply with the commission’s remedies by allowing smartphone-makers in Europe to install all of its apps separately, rather than as a bundle. They will, however, have to pay a licence fee. Google recently launched an appeal against the commission.

Jeff Bezos waded into the controversy surrounding Google’s decision to withdraw from the contest for a $10bn contract to provide the Department of Defence with cloud-computing services. Google pulled out in part because of ethical concerns about how the Pentagon might use its technology. Amazon’s boss said that was wrong, and that management must make the right decision “even when it’s unpopular”. Google had come under pressure from employees to drop its tender, raising questions about whether it has gone too far in bending to the will of its workers.
1. tender:a formal statement of the price you would charge for doing a job or providing goods or services 投标（书）
Our bid was the lowest tender.
我们投标的价格是最低的。
The contract for building the houses will be put out to tender. 
住房的建造合约将对外招标。
2. bending:弯曲；惹恼
His attitude drives me round the bend.
他的态度把我惹恼了。