##A Chinese ban on rubbish imports is shaking up the global junk trade
ON THE FIRST day of 2018, a huge shock hit the global recycling industry. China, which is the world’s biggest scrap importer, stopped accepting virtually any recycled plastic and unsorted scrap paper from abroad, and severely curbed imports of cardboard. The amount of recovered material that America, the world’s biggest exporter of scrap, sent to China was 3m tonnes less than in the first half of 2018 than a year earlier, a drop of 38%. China plans to phase in bans on most other rubbish, of which it imports $24bn-worth a year. At recycling plants across the Western world, bales of mixed paper and polymers now languish in forecourts awaiting offers.
1. recovered material:废料，可利用的废品
2. phase in:逐步采用，分阶段引入
The reforms would be phased in over three years.
3. languish:if someone languishes somewhere, they are forced to remain in a place where they are unhappy 被迫滞留；受煎熬
Shaw languished in jail for fifteen years.
肖身陷囹圄十五载。

China used to import a significant portion of the world’s scrap. Suddenly, revenues from selling mixed waste to China which waste-management companies used to cross-subsidise collection, dried up, hitting margins for American waste-management companies.

The Chinese ban removed the third leg of the “collect, sort, export” system on which the West had long relied. Improvements to automation could in time sort some of the surplus rubbish no longer sailing to China, but they have been incremental.*[1] High labour costs make hiring enough human sorters to deal with Western waste volumes prohibitively expensive.* Because they, too, cannot rely on cheap labour, Western reprocessing firms need cleaner inputs than their Chinese counterparts, so shun a lot of what MRFs currently spit out.*[2] Even if they did not, their capacity is insufficient to deal with the glut.* Incinerators and landfill will take some of the surplus waste. But the capacity of both is limited. Building a new incinerator costs upwards of $200m. Landfills are being gradually regulated out of existence, with many places, including California and the European Union, mandating cuts to the volume of waste being landfilled.
1. incremental:happening gradually over time
Mr Kennedy said that progress on reforms would be incremental.
a process of incremental change
2. [1]高昂的劳动力成本使得雇佣足够多的人来处理西方的垃圾总量非常昂贵。
3. MRF:Materials recovery facility. A materials recovery facility or materials reclamation facility or materials recycling facility is a specialized plant that receives, separates and prepares recyclable materials for marketing to end-user manufacturers.
4. shun:to deliberately avoid someone or something
Victims of the disease found themselves shunned by society.
患这种病的人发现，社会上的人都躲着 他们。
5. [2]即使他们没有这样做，他们的能力也不足以应对供应过剩。

The prohibition is not the only way in which China is affecting the scrap trade. The trade spat provoked by American tariffs on imported steel and aluminium (which exempt scrap) has already prompted trading partners to impose retaliatory levies (including on recovered metals). *[3]If the current tiffs escalate into a full-blown trade war, scrap—$109bn of which crosses borders each year—would suffer along with many other products.*
1. [3]如果当前的紧张局势升级为一场全面的贸易战，每年有1090亿美元的跨境废品贸易量，将和其他许多产品一样受到损害。