##The heavyweight rivals
Wang jianqin, in a thick red jerkin worn over her working clothes, does not look like an agent of superpower reprisal. The 60-year-old farmer rears 4,000 pigs in a brick-walled compound in Shunyi district, some 45km from Beijing. About a fifth of the food that she uses to fatten them up is soyabean meal, something China has come to import in vast quantities from the American Midwest.
1. rear:to look after a person or animal until they are fully grown
It’s a good place to rear young children.
这地方非常适合抚养小孩子成长。
2. compound:an area that contains a group of buildings and is surrounded by a fence or wall
3. fatten:to make an amount larger
These projects simply serve to fatten the pockets of developers. 
这些项目只会肥了开发商的腰包。

Over the past 30 years, as the demand for pork in China has outstripped that in any other country, Ms Wang and her peers have done very nicely out of that American soya. And in America farmers have done well out of Ms Wang. Chinese money helped them pay for lots of cheap, Chinese-made goods at Walmart—as well as for the genetically modified seeds and other high-tech inputs stuffed with American know-how that make them so productive.
1. know-how:knowledge, practical ability, or skill to do something

But this year their earnings will be a good bit down. In April President Donald Trump accused China of stealing intellectual property, coercing American firms into technology transfers and other unfair trade practices. Mr Trump spent a dizzying spring and summer announcing punitive tariffs, expanding their scope and amping up their severity. There are now tariffs of between 10% and 25% on $250bn of imports. Mr Trump has growled his willingness to go up to 25% on all of those goods and start in on the remaining $267bn if he does not get his way.
1. dizzy:feeling unable to stand steadily, for example because you are looking down from a high place or because you are ill
an important position – used humorously
Naomi had reached the dizzy heights of manageress. 
娜奥米已经晋升至经理这一令人眩晕的高位。
2. get one's way:如愿以偿

When China punched back, announcing tariffs on up to $60bn of American imports, it included a 25% tariff on soyabeans to hurt farm states that had voted for Mr Trump, such as Iowa. Despite China’s president, Xi Jinping, having fond memories of the time he spent in Muscatine, Iowa, in 1985, the fact that the state is both second among America’s soyabean producers and disproportionately influential in American politics makes it a prime target. Ms Wang was weaponised. As the price of soya has shot up, she says, some of her peers have switched to other feed, and she is thinking of following suit. The Chinese Feed Industry Association has proposed new standards for pigfeed that cut the soyabean content to just 11-13%—a change that could reduce annual consumption by 10m tonnes.
1. proportional:something that is proportional to something else is in the correct or most suitable relationship to it in size, amount, importance etc
The fee charged by the realtor is directly proportional to the price of the property. 
房产代理人收取的费用和房产价格是成正比的。
The punishment should be proportional to the crime. 
惩罚应与罪行相当。
2. follow suit:跟牌