##Politics this week
The World Bank raised concerns over a new law in Tanzania that would allow the government to jail people who question official statistics for up to three years. The law is the latest attempt by the government to suppress criticism of its policies, which have slowed economic growth.
防民之口，甚于防川；古今中外，兼如是

An earthquake and tsunami struck the Indonesian island of Sulawesi, causing widespread destruction in and around the city of Palu. The death toll stands at more than 1,400 and rising. Damaged roads and bridges have hampered emergency crews. Some affected areas remain cut off.
1. tsunami:海啸

Rosmah Mansor, the jewellery-loving wife of Malaysia’s former prime minister, Najib Razak, was charged with money-laundering. She and Mr Najib are both being investigated in connection with the disappearance of billions of dollars from a government investment fund.

Denny Tamaki, the son of a Japanese woman and an American marine, was elected governor of the Japanese island of Okinawa. He wants an American air base on the island to be closed, instead of moved, as the central government proposes.
1. Okinawa:冲绳

A Chinese destroyer sailed within 40 metres of an American warship in a disputed area of the South China Sea. The American vessel was performing a “freedom of navigation” operation near reefs claimed by China. America’s navy said the Chinese manoeuvre was “unsafe and unprofessional”.
1. destroyer:驱逐舰

A court in northern China sentenced a former deputy chief of the country’s securities regulator, Yao Gang, to 18 years in prison for taking bribes valued at 69m yuan ($10m) and insider trading.

Fan Bingbing, a Chinese film star whose credits include “Iron Man 3” and “Despicable Me 3”, was fined 883m yuan ($129m) for tax evasion. China is cracking down on celebrities for allegedly mis-stating their earnings. Ms Fan had been secretly detained since July.
1. celebrity:明星
2. misstate:谎报

Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister, danced to the lectern at the Conservative Party conference. She claimed that a decade of austerity could soon be over, took a swipe at the Labour Party and warned hardline Brexiteers that, if they vote against her “Chequers” Brexit plan, “we risk ending up with no Brexit at all.” Mrs May has been dogged by speculation of a leadership challenge. Boris Johnson, her biggest rival, urged the party to “chuck Chequers”.
1. Chequers:Chequers,formally Chequers Court , country house, administrative and historic county of Buckinghamshire , England , situated 30 miles (50 km) northwest of London, the official country residence of the prime ministers of Great Britain. The estate is about 1,500 acres (600 hectares) in extent. Chequers owes much of its present character to the remodeling, in 1565, of its predecessor.
2. chuck:to leave your job

Italy placed itself on a collision course with the European Commission by proposing a budget deficit of 2.4% for next year. Since economic growth is anaemic, this will result in a further increase in Italy’s already huge debt stock as a proportion of GDP.
1. anaemic:(经济增长)乏力
2. debt stock:债务存量

People in Macedonia voted in a referendum to rename their country Northern Macedonia. Although more than 90% of those voting approved the change, the turnout was well under the required 50%. A deal with Greece that would allow Macedonia to join NATO and the EU in return for the name-change is now in danger.
1. turnout:投票率

Jamal Khashoggi, a prominent Saudi journalist and government critic, vanished after visiting a Saudi consulate in Istanbul. Mr Khashoggi had been living in exile in Washington, DC. “We don’t know if he is being detained, questioned or when he will be released,” said the Washington Post, for which he wrote.
1. consulate:领事馆

Iraq’s parliament elected a new president, Barham Salih. Mr Salih quickly named Adel Abdul-Mahdi, a Shia politician, as prime minister-designate, ending a period of deadlock following an election in May. Mr Abdul-Mahdi was backed by the two largest blocs in parliament, averting a potential dispute between Shia politicians.

The central bank of Liberia denied earlier claims by the government that it had lost more than $100m-worth of cash, the equivalent of 5% of its GDP. The bank said it had found the notes in its vaults.
Liberia GDP是20亿美金

Canada agreed to join America and Mexico in a deal to revise the North American Free Trade Agreement. Under its new name, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, Canada will give American farmers a bit more access to its dairy market but the much larger car trade will become less free. America agreed to keep NAFTA’s dispute-settlement mechanism.

The International Court of Justice in The Hague rejected Bolivia’s claim that Chile has an “obligation to negotiate sovereign access to the sea” for Bolivia. Bolivia lost its coastline to Chile in a war in 1884. The court did say that a settlement of the dispute was a “matter of mutual interest”.

Peru’s supreme court overturned the pardon given to Alberto Fujimori, a former president who had been jailed for the killing of 25 people by a government-backed death squad in the early 1990s. He was pardoned on health grounds in December 2017 by Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, the then-president.
1. the floor:全体与会者