Washington state’s highest court strikes twin blows for criminal justice
华盛顿州最高法院对刑事司法进行了双重打击
Rulings against capital punishment and in favour of juvenile criminals show the power of state tribunals
反对死刑和有利于少年罪犯的裁决显示了国家法庭的权力

THE SUPREME COURT of Washington state lies nearly 3,000 miles to the west of America's highest tribunal at 1 First Street NE, Washington, DC. Its jurisdiction covers only 71,362 square miles and some 7.4m people. But twice in the last fortnight it has pushed criminal justice beyond where majorities of the federal Supreme Court have been willing to go—or are likely to venture in the coming years.

华盛顿州最高法院位于美国最高法院西侧近3000英里处，位于华盛顿特区第一街北1号。其管辖面积仅71362平方英里，人口约740万。但是在过去的两周内，它已经两次将刑事司法推进到联邦最高法院的大多数人都愿意去做的范围之外，或者在未来几年可能会去做的范围之外。

On October 11th, the nine justices (who are elected to six-year terms, as compared to their federal counterparts’ lifetime appointments) ruled unanimously in State v Gregory that the death penalty violates the ban on “cruel punishment” in article 1, section 14 of Washington’s constitution. Citing evidence from a study conducted by Katherine Beckett and Heather Evans, the court found that capital punishment, “as administered in our state”, serves no “legitimate penological goals” and is “arbitrary and racially biased”. The bias is pronounced: black defendants in Washington from 1981 to 2014 were “four-and-a-half times more likely to be sentenced to death than similarly situated white defendants”, the report found. This finding cannot be attributed to “random chance”, the court ruled. Only “overt racial bias” explains Washington’s disproportionate death sentences for blacks. 

10月11日，九名法官(与联邦法官终身任用相比，他们的任期为6年)一致裁定，死刑违反了华盛顿宪法第1条第14款关于残忍刑罚的禁令。引用Katherine Beckett和Heather Evans进行的一项研究的证据，华盛顿州最高法院发现在华盛顿州执行死刑没有合法的刑罚目标，而且是武断的和带有种族偏见的。这种偏见是显而易见的：报告发现1981年至2014年间，华盛顿的黑人被告被判处死刑的可能性是白人被告的4.5倍。法院裁定这一发现不能归咎于偶然。只有明显的种族偏见才能解释华盛顿州对黑人判处的比例失调的死刑。

One week later, on October 18th, the same nine justices split 5-4 in recognising another advance in criminal justice: a ban on life sentences without the possibility of parole for juvenile offenders. This ruling in State v Bassett, too, relied on the Washington constitution’s ban on “cruel punishment” and the contention that this provision is more protective of criminal defendants’ rights than the federal constitution’s prohibition on “cruel and unusual punishment” in the Eighth Amendment. The state court drew inspiration from Supreme Court jurisprudence in Miller v Alabama, a 2012 case that banned mandatory life sentences without parole for defendants who committed their crimes before reaching their 18th birthday. Children, the state court concluded, “are less criminally culpable than adults” and should never be sentenced to the irrevocable punishment of spending their entire lives in prison. Four of the Washington high court’s justices protested that the majority’s logical leap in Bassett—which expands on Miller by invalidating even discretionary life sentences for minors—had “no basis in state law” and was simply a faulty reinterpretation of Miller. But as in the federal Supreme Court, all the defendant Brian Bassett needed was to secure five votes, and he got them. Now 35, the man who at age 16 killed his family will have a chance of being released from prison before he dies.

These decisions exemplify what Jeffrey Sutton, a judge on the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, explains in a recent book. In "51 Imperfect Solutions: States and the Making of American Constitutional Law" he writes that, “[s]tate courts have the authority to construe their own constitutional provisions however they wish”. The 50 state high courts are not compelled to parrot the Supreme Court’s interpretations of rights in the federal constitution “when it comes to the rights guarantees found in their own constitutions, even guarantees that match the federal ones letter for letter". State court rulings on the meaning of state law are “impervious to challenge” in the federal Supreme Court.

Though sweeping conceptually, neither ruling from the Washington Supreme Court will have a dramatic effect on the lives of inmates. There are 14 prisoners in Washington serving life sentences for crimes they committed as children; they will be resentenced but few if any will find themselves quickly released. And while the eight defendants on Washington’s death row will have their capital sentences cancelled thanks to the ruling in Gregory—no small change—a moratorium on executions declared by the governor in 2014 has meant they have not faced the actual prospect of lethal injection for several years now. 

But the judgments have implications far beyond these couple of dozen prisoners and extend well outside the state’s borders. As Mr Sutton writes in his book, quoting the late Justice Louis Brandeis's sentiment regarding state legislatures, state courts, too, “have far more freedom to ‘try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country’” than does the federal Supreme Court. States tribunals should not be afraid to strike out on their own. The Supreme Court in Washington, DC may be powerful, but it has no authority to weigh in on the 50 state constitutions under the aegis of state judges. The Supreme Court has been “less likely to innovate new constitutional rights” in recent decades than in the 1950s and 1960s, Mr Sutton writes, and Americans should be loth to regard it as “an oracle of truth”.