##How governments should deal with the rise of the gig economy
For many, the “gig economy”, in which short-term jobs are assigned via online platforms, is a potent symbol of how modern capitalism has failed. Critics rail that it allows firms to rid themselves of well-paid employees, replacing them with cheap freelancers. Workers who once relied on an employer to pay into their pension, or to cover their health care when they fell ill, must instead save for the future themselves. On this reading, the gig economy turbocharges insecurity and the erosion of workers’ hard-won rights. There is a grain of truth to this. But it misses the bigger picture.
1. potent:having a very powerful effect or influence on your body or mind
A good company pension scheme remains a potent weapon for attracting staff.
良好的公司养老金计划依然是吸引员工的有效武器。
The treaty requires them to get rid of their most potent weapons.
条约要求他们销毁威力最强大的武器。
2. rail:to complain angrily about something, especially something that you think is very unfair
Consumers rail against the way companies fix prices. 
消费者谴责公司的定价方式。
3. turbocharge:涡轮增压；加速
4. hard-won:achieved only after a lot of effort and difficulty

Crucially, benefits also accrue to workers. The algorithms that underpin gig-economy platforms improve the “matching” between giggers and jobs, leading to less dead time. *[1]The evidence that gig workers face a pay penalty compared with conventional employees is patchy; many say they value the extra autonomy they enjoy compared with salaried workers.* Gig platforms are a useful way of topping up income or smoothing out earnings if other sources of work dry up. They can also break open closed industries. Research shows that the arrival of Uber in American cities leads on average to a 50% surge in the number of self-employed taxi-drivers.
1. penalty:something bad that happens to you because of something you have done or because of the situation you are in
不利，害处
If you don’t do the job right, you will pay the penalty .
要是不好好干活的话，你会有麻烦的。
One of the penalties of being famous is the loss of privacy.
成名的弊端之一就是失去隐私。
2. [1]与传统劳动者相比零工劳动者薪酬待遇不好，这种说法不够令人信服的；与受薪劳动者相比，零工劳动者更看重额外的自主权。

But the gig economy is not perfect. Platforms argue they are no more than neutral marketplaces in which workers and customers meet. By this logic, workers ought to count as self-employed. But the standards to which some platforms hold workers tell a different story. Food-delivery riders are often told to wear a uniform; drivers for ride-hailing apps need to maintain a good rating or can be kicked off the platform. Platforms have a legitimate interest in maintaining their quality of service. But it cannot be right that some firms specify how workers must submit to the duties of acting like employees even as they reject the responsibilities of acting like employers.
1. legitimate:fair or reasonable;acceptable or allowed by law
Most scientists believe it is legitimate to use animals in medical research.
大多数科学家认为用动物作医学研究是正当的。
Their business operations are perfectly legitimate.
他们的商业活动完全合法。

One proposal, being floated in America, is to create a third category of worker, sitting somewhere between self-employed and employed. Yet the boundaries between classifications will always be fuzzy. Britain already has such a third category.*[2] It is also the place where arguments about the legal status of gig workers are most vigorous.*
1. [2]这里也是关于零工劳动者的法律地位争论最为激烈的地方。

Better to rely on two other mechanisms. The first is the market. Unemployment is low and pay is starting to rise—*[3]Amazon this week announced big bumps in the minimum wages it pays American and British workers.* The platforms will need to respond. Some gig-economy firms are voluntarily offering their workers health insurance. Competition between gig firms also helps. Italian food-delivery riders boast of how they play platforms off against each other in their efforts to get better pay and benefits. Innovations such as Australia’s GigSuper, a fund which makes it easier for gig workers to save for a pension, are also welcome.
1. [3]亚马逊本周宣布大幅提高美国和英国工人最低工资。

A helping hand
The other mechanism is to help workers claim their existing rights. One option is to make it simpler for disgruntled gig workers to use the judicial system. Precedent-setting rulings on the status of gig workers may be piling up, but the barriers to going to court in the first place are often too high. Another option is to help giggers organise, in order to mitigate the low bargaining power the self-employed often face compared with employees. *[4]A third option is to boost the credibility of the system for detecting and prosecuting deliberate infractions of employment law.* America has just one labour inspector for every 100,000 employed people, the world’s joint-lowest ratio. Simply insisting that firms follow the rules would give workers greater protection while ensuring that the gig economy lives up to its enormous promise.
1. disgruntled:annoyed or disappointed, especially because things have not happened in the way that you wanted
a disgruntled client 不满的客户
2. mitigate:to make a situation or the effects of something less unpleasant, harmful, or serious
Measures need to be taken to mitigate the environmental effects of burning more coal.
需要采取措施来减轻燃煤增加对环境造成的影响。
3. low bargaining power:低议价能力
4. [4]第三种选择是提高系统的可信度，以发现和起诉故意违反雇佣法的行为。

##The IMF appoints a new chief economist
A fresh face, and fresh thinking on exchange rates
THE International Monetary Fund (IMF) used to be known for its unwavering advocacy of the “Washington consensus”, a set of free-market policies including free capital flows and fiscal consolidation. Nowadays it is a little more introspective—or, perhaps, open-minded. On October 1st the fund announced that Gita Gopinath, a professor at Harvard University, will soon replace Maurice Obstfeld as its top economist. *[5]The appointment puts another pillar of orthodoxy—regarding the benefits of flexible exchange rates—on notice.*
1. unwavering:an unwavering attitude, belief, expression etc does not change
坚定的，毫不动摇的
2. introspective:tending to think deeply about your own thoughts, feelings, or behaviour
好内省的，好反省的
3. [5]这一任命使另一项正统学说-关于浮动汇率制的好处-受到关注。

Born in India, Professor Gopinath studied for her doctorate at Princeton under Kenneth Rogoff, a former occupant of her new job, and Ben Bernanke, who later led the Federal Reserve during the financial crisis. From there she moved to the University of Chicago, and on to Harvard, where she has produced prodigious amounts of research.
1. prodigious:very large or great in a surprising or impressive way
巨大的，庞大的，大得惊人的
the artist’s prodigious output
那位艺术家惊人的高产
Some galaxies seem to release prodigious amounts of energy.
一些星系似乎释放出巨大的能量。

Most famous is her work on currency movements. One reason countries have flexible exchange rates is to cushion their economies from external shocks. A country whose currency is falling should see its terms of trade—the cost of its exports relative to imports—fall, encouraging foreigners to buy its goods and keep its economy healthy. Professor Gopinath’s work questions that assumption. Because so much trade is invoiced in dollars, she argues, foreigners might find that their troubled neighbour’s goods are no cheaper, unless their own currency has moved against the dollar. In this “dominant currency paradigm” the strength of the greenback drives trade flows and prices. Floating currencies therefore provide less of a cushion.
1. cushion:to protect someone from an unpleasant situation or the unpleasant effects of something
使免受冲击，减轻…的影响
generous leaving allowances to help cushion the blow of redundancy
缓和裁员打击的不菲的离职补贴
Parents today often feel their children should be cushioned from the outside world.
如今的父母常常觉得自己的孩子应该被保护起来免受外部世界的打击。
2. terms of trade:[贸易] 贸易条件；进出口交换比率
3. moved against the dollar:盯住美元

The IMF role will not be Professor Gopinath’s first foray into public policy. For example, she currently advises the chief minister of Kerala, a state in India. In her new job she will oversee the fund’s twice-yearly economic forecasts. She will also be responsible for ensuring that the fund’s thinking is based on “solid theoretical and empirical grounds”, says Olivier Blanchard, another of her predecessors.
1. solid theoretical and empirical grounds:坚实的理论和经验基础

Her research suggests that she may have a fresh perspective on what does, and does not, meet that threshold. And she is distinctive in another way—she will be the first woman to hold the job.